






LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


It was indeed a great pleasure to read your 
powerful editorial on the cult phenomenon in 
your autumn issue. Too few people seem to be 
prepared to speak out on this increasing prob¬ 
lem so that your coverage of the subject was 
most welcome. 

You will no doubt have several critics as well 
as those, like myself, who endorse your accurate 
appraisal of the cult problem. Whenever one 
takes a strong stand against cult manipulation, 
one opens the door to criticism from both cult 
members and the misinformed victims of cult 
propaganda. As an ex-cult member now dedi¬ 
cated to exposing the psychologically coercive 
aspects of cults, I realize how very easy it is for 
people to become ensnared by these groups. 
Those people who feel they cannot be “taken in" 
have already been “taken in” by believing that. 

We need to be constantly reminded of this 
insidious threat to society. It seems to be in our 
nature to forget all too quickly the various 
warnings such as the tragedy at Jonestown. 

Congratulations on your superb coverage of 
this important topic. 

Ian Haworth 

President, Council on Mind Abuse. 

The editorial “Cults + Camps = Death!!” was an 
unfortunate blend of good writing and poor 
thinking. Obviously the writer has some un¬ 
stated “axe to grind” against our freedoms and 
way of life in order to mount such a sensation¬ 
alists attack based upon a presentation of facts 
which could support only the statement that 
“Poor Judgement + Camps = Death”. 

Certainly the death in question was a matter 
of bad judgement. Despite the quotes implying 
that it was a matter of capital punishment, police 
charges (manslaughter, not murder) make it 
clear that a culpable negligence was believed 
involved, not an intent to kill, and that no jury 
would be persuaded that there was intent. A 
stick "the size of a broom handle” is too 
dangerous for corporal punishment - as the 
case demonstrates - if the force and target are 


not carefully controlled. Presumably the boy 
moved, and got hit in the wrong place. That 
demonstrates poor judgement by the person in 
charge. People in charge are expected to show 
better judgement and not be the cause of casual¬ 
ties, by deed or omission. And yet, interestingly, 
the Canadian people have shown themselves to 
be very tolerant and accepting of poor judge¬ 
ment in leaders (consider the economy, SunCor, 
Petro Can, metrication, Canadair, etc.) - usually 
re-electing them with larger majorities after¬ 
ward. 

Don Greenwood, Ph.D. 

Scarborough, Ontario 

“Presumably the boy moved, and got hit in the 
wrong place” Yes, and some people have the 
stupid sense to walk on a sidewalk and get killed 
by a car out-of-control; some people presum¬ 
ably move in front of loaded guns, too! 


In your last issue you advised that you would be 
dealing with the Acid Rain problem. I look 
forward to the issue, one that seems so dread¬ 
fully pertinent to camping and surely overdue. 

We are painfully aware of such facts: 1500 
Ontario lakes are functionally dead; 48,000 
more Ontario lakes moving towards no longer 
being able to support life; thousands of jobs 
depending on fishing, forestry and tourism being 
eliminated; acid rain actually dissolving and 
eating away at historic buildings, homes, cars 
and monuments; emissions causing acid rain 
are now being linked to respiratory problems 
and heavy metal poisoning in drinking water; the 
vast majority of Canadians live, camp and vaca¬ 
tion in areas sensitive to this fallout. 

The many problems and possible solutions 
are certainly complex and expensive but surely 
we have a responsibility to address our con¬ 
cerns to industry and government. 

As a member of the Federation of Ontario 
Naturalists, a founding member of the Canadian 
Coalition on Acid Rain, I feel we need the 
support of all concerned Canadians. The Cana¬ 


dian Coalition is proud to count over 1,000,000 
Canadians and 50 organizations as members, 
including: Canadian Nature Federation, Ontario 
Lung Association, Tourism Ontario, Pollution 
Probe, Sierra Club of Ontario, Ontario Forestry 
Association, Canadian Environmental Law 
Association, Resorts Ontario, Canadian Society 
of Environmental Biologists, Consumers’ Asso¬ 
ciation of Canada - Manitoba, International 
Atlantic Salmon Association, Inuit Tapirisat of 
Canada, National History Society of P.E.I., Union 
of Ontario Indians and many, many more. 

Noticeably absent in this list is the Canadian 
Camping Association or any Provincial Camp¬ 
ing Associations. Is it the mandate of your Asso¬ 
ciation to remain apolitical? Do you take excep¬ 
tion to any of the Coalition’s goals? Surely acid 
rain strikes at the heart of Camping in Canada. I 
challenge the Camping Associations of Canada 
to take a stand and express a united and 
concerned voice to industry and government 
This is more than just an environmentalist’s 
problem. It is a human problem and one that 
confronts every human being. It also confronts a 
legacy of the kind of natural environment we are 
going to leave to our children, to our future 
campers. Is the Canadian Camping Association 
ready to take a stand? 

Doug Caldwell 
Port Credit, Ontario 


Thank you for the autumn 1983 issue, which 
addresses the problem of cults in camps. I share 
shock and dismay at the news of the death of 
John Yarbough. At the same time I am con¬ 
cerned about the conclusion in the editorial that 
“our legislative inability to defend against these 
coercive and manipulative forces is ridiculously 
insufficient” 

I would like to suggest that anti-cult legisla¬ 
tion is not the answer to cults in camps. Reli¬ 
gious freedom and toleration are values upon 
See LETTERS - page 10 


CONTENTS 

Winter 1984 


Vol. 35, No. 4 

5 The Camping Advisor 

13 

Feature: Acid Rain - Understanding the Problem at Camp 

by Jay Haddad 


by Jeff Reading 

6 President’s Perspective 

17 

Between Seasons in the 

by Jocelyn Palm 


Alberta Camping Association 

7 Volunteer Leaders Sharpen Executive Skills 


by Colin Lumby 

by Marjorie Booth 

19 

Environmental Education: Not an 

11 Group Dynamics Exercise 


Endangered Species 

by John Roberts 


by Rick Ireland 


SPECIAL INSERT - 1984 PUBLICATIONS CATALOGUE 


Cover Photo: Nicholas Joseph 

This Association gratefully acknowledges ■ Government of Canada Gouvernement du Canada 

the financial support of I Fitness and Amateur Sport Condition physique et Sport amateur 


2 




EDITORIAL 

Acid Rain: Not Just A Catchphrase! 


There was a time when meadow, grove, and stream, 

The earth, and every common sight, 

To me did seem 
Apparelled in celestial light, 

The glory and the freshness of a dream. 

It is not now as it hath been of yore; - 
Turn whereso’er I may, 

By night or day, 

The things which I have seen I now can see no more. 

- William Wordsworth 

Acid rain! We’re bombarded by the term daily; it's a hot media item; most 
people are bored with the term but most people either don’t care or don’t 
understand. John Roberts, Federal Minister of the Environment, says “acid 
rain is one of the most devastating forms of pollution imaginable, an 
insidious malaria of the biosphere... it’s the single most important irritant in 
Canadian-American relations.” TIME magazine calls it “The Silent Scourge” 
and states that acid rain is shaping up as the ecological issue of the 80’s. A 
recent letter to all members from the Canadian Wildlife Federation begins 
with “an urgent appeal to join us in our efforts to combat Acid Rain - the 
single, most critical problem facing Canadians in this century” The National 
Film Board’s “Acid Rain: Requiem or Recovery” is frank, factual and 
frightening; this is a film no one can afford to miss - this is the film that the 
United States Government labelled as "propaganda”. 

The facts are clear, the statistics compelling and the reality is shattering! 
The major problem in not witnessing significant action remains a political 
one. Clean-ups cost money and while it is easy to point a finger at the 
utilities, it’s another story trying to effect change because of the tremendous 
wealth and clout of those at the top of business and industry. Not to mention 
the political contributions donated by individuals and corporations which 
place Governments in a political caught-in-the-middle. They have research 
scientists, concerned citizens, consumer groups, environmental agencies 
and their own consciences echoing the gravity, enormity and reality of the 
acid rain problem; at the same time, their financial supporters and friends 
are often the ones responsible for the toxic emissions. The end result is a lot 
of wheel-spinning, name-calling and questions asked by all parties: are the 
studies really valid? How urgent is this problem? What are the possible 
solutions? How much will they cost? Who will foot the bill? Should we study 
this further? And while the discussions continue, so too do the sulphur 
dioxides and nitrogen oxides continue to float into the atmosphere, mixing 
with vapor and sunlight to fall as diluted solutions of nitric acid and sulfuric 
acid - or acid rain. TIME magazine (November 8, 1982) ... “Canadian 
environmental officials project the loss of 48,000 lakes by the end of the 
century if nothing is done to curb acid rain. Already, they estimate 2,000 to 
4,000 lakes in Ontario have become so acidified they can no longer support 
trout and bass, and some 1,300 more in Quebec are in the process of being 
destroyed. In Nova Scotia, nine rivers used as spawning grounds by Atlantic 
salmon no longer teem with fish during the spring. According to a recent 
Gallup Poll, 77% of ail Canadians believe that acid rain is the gravest 
environmental problem their country faces.” 


This problem should be of vital concern to every camp director, camp 
counsellor, camper, Provincial Camping Association and indeed the 
Canadian Camping Association. Yet the Canadian Coalition on Acid Rain 
has indicated that the Canadian Camping Association is not even a 
member!! Why is it that those with so much to lose often have little to say? 
We pride ourselves in calling the “camping experience” a unique, out-of- 
doors, meaningful experience for youth in our natural environment - this 
very environment or life-blood of camping is now threatened - and 
threatened seriously - with extinction. We have got to take this issue 
seriously and become concerned and vocal citizens, environmentalists, 
camp directors, responsible leaders. Hopefully, all camp directors are 
members of the Canadian Wildlife Federation - we should be encouraging 
active participation and involvement by our staff and campers as well. Give 
gift subscriptions and use their valuable information for your environment 
programme at camp or your chapel talks. Their environmental ethic is 
spiritual and profound; their activity on our behalf is relentless. Their 
pictures are majestic and serve as an inspiration for anyone interested in 
wildlife photography. Most importantly, however, is this profound ethic 
which is the cornerstone of the Canadian Wildlife Federation - an ethic or 
concern which has yet to be articulated by the Canadian Camping 
Association or its federated members. We have, on paper, a national 
environment committee and still no word on acid rain, no position, no 
dissemination of information, no commitment! To be selectively mute in this 
area is to be irresponsible and out-of-touch with a growing movement. We 
should have spoken out years ago and remained in the vanguard of public 
opinion; instead, we are being implored to join the shirtsleeves of over a 
million other Canadians and Canadian groups to mobilize and support the 
Canadian Coalition on Acid Rain, a force which remains miffed by our 
silence and absence. 

In the 1960’s, everyone studying psychology examined and discussed the 
now-famous laboratory experiment and prophesy of Dr. John Calhoun, 
social psychologist. He placed a small number of laboratory mice in an ideal 
environment and watched their growth and behaviour. He wondered what 
would happen when the colony reached optimal size in their community: 
would biology and preservation hold their numbers steady or would 
propagation continue recklessly with no built-in controls and lead to social 
problems and/or extinction? The mice colony grew and grew and grew - 
increased genetic defects, aggression, mothers cannibalizing pups, anti¬ 
social behaviours etc. The colony began to die off and eventually the last 
mouse - an elderly female - passed away and the colony was extinct. 
Calhoun made a prophesy that the planet earth is on a collision course; the 
species man has the brain capacity to regulate, control, predict, understand, 
moralize, prevent, hypothesize. We are the only species which can think 
about thinking. And yet, we stand on a crowded and dangerous threshold 
looking over an abyss. Will the capabilities of the human brain save us or 
destroy us? Will we heed the prophesies of John Calhoun, the environ¬ 
mentalists and our own consciences? Will we continue on a collision 
course leaving the final question to be asked: WHY? 


Editorial Policy 

Jay Haddad, Editor 

The ideas expressed in the Editorial are 
those of the Editorial Committee and not 
necessarily those of the Canadian Camp¬ 
ing Association/Association des Camps 
du Canada. The views are expressed to 
provide stimulation and comment. We in¬ 
vite you to respond in “Letters to the 
Editor” to Canadian Camping, 1806 
Avenue Road, Suite 2, Toronto, Ontario 
M5M 3Z1. 


Editorial Office is located at the CCA/ACC 
Office, 1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, Toronto, 
Ontario M5M 3Z1. 


Canadian Camping is an official publication of the Canadian Camping Association/Association des 
Camps du Canada. Canadian Camping (ISSN 008-3119) is published quarterly. CCA/ACC member¬ 
ship includes a subscription; non-member subscriptions in Canada $6.00 a year or $15.00 - 3 years. 
Send address changes to CCA/ACC, 1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1. 
Material in Canadian Camping may not be reproduced in any form, without written permission of the 
editor. Copyright 1983 Canadian Camping Association/Association des Camps du Canada. 


3 


EDITORIAL 

La pluie acide - plus qu’une simple rengaine! 


II fut un temps ou un pre, un bosquet, un cours d’eau, 

la terre et tout ce qu'il y a de plus commun 
et universel 
m’apparut revetu 

de Teclat et de la splendeur du del. 

Ce n’est plus maintenant ce que c'&ait au temps jadis. 

Tout a change, je suis confus 
Et tout ce qui me parlait si distinctement, 

Je ne peux plus Tentendre. 

adaptation du poeme de William Wordsworth 

La pluie acide! Voila un terme dont on nous bombarde chaque jour; les 
medias en ont fait une question de brulante actuatite; la plupart des gens 
s’en sont lasses, mais il faut dire aussi que dans la majorite des cas, les 
gens font preuve d’indifference et d’un manque de comprehension. De I’avis 
de John Roberts, ministre federal de I’environnement, “la pluie acide est 
I’une des formes de pollution la plus devastatrice que I'on puisse imaginer. 
C'est une insidieuse malaria dont est atteinte la biosphere et elle constitue 
en soi le principal point de friction dans le contexte des relations entre les 
Etats-Unis et le Canada”. La revue TIMEa donne E ce phenomene le nom de 
"fieau silencieux" et affirme que le probleme de la pluie acide prend des 
proportions qui en font, peu E peu, le probleme ecologique dominant des 
annees 80. Dans une lettre que la Canadian Wildlife Federation faisait 
rEcemment parvenir a ses membres, celle-ci langait d’emblee un "appel 
urgent pour inviter ses membres a appuyer ses efforts afin de combattre la 
pluie acide- le probleme qui, en soi, est le plus grave auquel les Canadiens 
ont E faire face aujourd’hui”. Le film intitule "Acid Rain : Requiem or 
Recovery", de I’office national du film, pose le probleme avec franchise et 
sous un jour effrayant. C’est un film que I’on ne peut se permettre de 
manquer. C’est le film que le gouvernement americain a qualifie de 
“propagande”. 

Les faits sont evidents, les statistiques formelles et la rEalitE troublante. 
L’absence de toute mesure significative est un probleme d’ordre politique. 
Les operations de nettoyage sont couteuse et, bien qu’il soit facile de 
dEnoncer les services d’utilite publique dont les centrales electriques 
fonctionnant au charbon et E I’huile contribuent pour une grand part au 
probleme, ce n’est pas chose facile que de changer la situation car les 
magnats de I’industrie sont riches et peuvent faire jouer leurs influences. II 
faut, en outre, mentionner que les dons E caractere politique que font les 
corporations et les individus aux gouvernements, placent les dirigeants 
dans une situation politique ambigue. Ceux-ci disposent, d’une part, de 
chercheurs, de citoyens sensibilisEs au probleme, d’associations de 
consommateurs, de bureaux de I’environnement et leur propre conscience 
ne cesse de les alerter de la gravite, de 1’EnormitE et de la realite du 
probleme de la pluie acide. D’autre part les responsables de ces Emana¬ 
tions toxiques sont bien souvent les amis et soutiens financiers du parti au 
pouvoir. Bref, on tourne en rond, on s'invective et les intEressEs se posent 
tous la question: quelle est, en rEalitE, !a validitE de ces Etudes? A quel point 
ce problEme est-il urgent? quelles sont les solutions possibles? Quel en 
sera le cout? Qui paiera la facture? Devrions-nous pousser plus loin nos 
Etudes? Pendant que le dEbat se poursuit, le bioxyde de souffre et I’oxyde 
de nitrogene continuent de s’infiltrer dans I’atmosphEre, se melent E la 
vapeur et la lumiere solaire, puis tombent sous forme de precipitations 
d’acide nitrique et d’acide sulfurique - c’est-a-dire de pluie acide. On 
pouvait lire ce qui suit dans la revue TIME, edition du 8 novembre 1982: 
“Selon les professionnels de I’environnement, on peut s’attendre a perdre 
48 000 lacs d’ici la fin du siEcle, a moins d’une intervention visant a maitriser 
la pluie acide. DEja, ils Evaluent entre 2 000 et 4 000 le nombre de lacs en 
Ontario qui sont devenus tenement acidifies que la truite et la perche ne 
peuvent plus y vivre, tandis qu’au Quebec 1 300 lacs sont maintenant en 
voie de destruction. En Nouvelle-Ecosse, on ne trouve plus, au printemps, 
une abondance de poissons dans les neuf rivieres affectEes au frai du 
saumon de I’Atlantique. Un rEcent sondage Gallup a revEIE que 77% des 


Canadiens pensent que la pluie acide et le plus grave probleme Ecologique 
auquel le pays ait eu a faire face jusqu’ici". 

Ce probleme devrait etre la preoccupation primordiale de tout directeur 
de camp, de tout conseiller en camping, de tout campeur, du Provincial 
Camping Association, voire de I’Association des camps du Canada. Pour- 
tant, la Canadian Coalition on Acid Rain a fait savoir que I’Association des 
camps du Canada n’en est meme pas membre!! Comment se fait-il que ceux 
qui auraient le plus a perdre sont ceux-la memes qui ont le moins E dire? 
Nous sommes tout fiers de parler du camping comme d’une expErience 
unique, en plein air, et tenement importante pour nos jeunes dans notre 
cadre naturel - cadre qui est I’Eme meme du camping mais qui, hElas, est 
menacE - gravement menacE, dois-je dire - d’aneantissement. Nous 
devons prendre a coeur ce problEme, nous en prEoccuper et prendre 
position en tant que citoyens, spEciElistes de I’environnement, directeurs de 
camps, dirigeants responsables. Les directeurs de camp sont tous, nous 
I’esperons, membres de la Canadian Wildlife Federation; nous devrions 
encourager notre personnel, aussi bien que les campeurs, E participer de 
fagon active et E s’engager. Votre participation aux activitEs de la FEdEration 
peut prendre la forme de dons; employez ses prEcieux renseignements 
dans le cadre de votre programme sur I'environnement en camping ou de 
vos exposEs E la chapelle. Le code de dEontologie environnementale de cet 
organisme est impregnE de profonde spirituality les activitEs qu’il entre- 
prend en notre faveur sont sans relache. II a rEalisE de superbes photos qui 
sont une vEritable source d’inspiration pour quiconque s’intEresse a la 
photographie de la faune. Le plus important, cependant, c’est cette 
dEontologie profonde qui est la pierre agulaire de la Canadian Wildlife 
Federation - dEontologie ou engagement que I’Association des camps du 
Canada ou ses membres affilies doivent exprimer de fagon articulEe. II 
existe, sur le papier, un comitE national de I’environnement; pourtant, E ce 
jour, pas un mot au sujet de la pluie acide; aucune prise de position, pas de 
dissEmination de I’information, pas d’engagement! Le mutisme qualifiE 
dans ce domainedEnote un manque total de responsabilitE et une perte de 
contact avec un mouvement qui prend de I’ampleur. Nous devrions avoir 
pris position ouvertement il y a des annEes, et non etre E la remorque de 
(’opinion publique; au lieu de cela, on nous supplie de nous joindre E plus 
d’un million d'autres Canadiens et d’associations canadiennes en vue d’une 
mobilisation en faveur de la Canadian Coalition on Acid Rain, organisme 
qui demeure vexE de notre silence et de notre absence. 

Dans les annEes 60, toutEtudient en psychologie analysait en profondeur 
les expEriences en laboratoire et les prEdictions, aujourd’hui cEIEbres, du 
docteur John Calhoun, psychologue social. II insEra un petit nombre de 
souris de laboratoire dans un habitat idEal et observa leur croissance et leur 
comportement. (I se demandait ce qui se produirait lorsque les sujets 
atteindraient leur croissance optimale au sein de la colonie: la biologie et la 
conservation stabitiseraient-elles leur nombre, ou bien continueraient-ils 
de se propager de fagon dEsordonnEe en I’absence de controles intrin- 
seques, entratnant ainsi des problEmes d’ordre social ou I’extinction? La 
colonie de souris ne cessait de grandir- les dEfauts gEnEtiques augmen- 
taient, ainsi que les actes degression, tandis que les mEres, devenues 
cannibales, dEvoraient leurs petits, et on notait des comportements anti- 
sociaux etc. Les sujets mouraient les uns aprEs les autres et, avec la mort 
de la derniEre souris, une femelle EgEe, ce fut I’extinction de la colonie. 
Selon la prEdiction de Calhoun, notre planEte est sur une route de collision; 
I’espece humaine possede les capacitEs mentales nEcessaires pour rEgler, 
controler, prEdire, comprendre, moraliser et faire des hypothEses. Nous 
sommes la seule espece E pouvoir penser de fagon consciente. Pourtant, 
nous sommes debouts sur le seuil encombrE et dangereux d’un abime. Les 
capacitEs mentales de I’humain serviront-elles E son salut ou a sa destruc¬ 
tion? Tiendrons-nous compte des prEdictions de John Calhoun, des 
professionnels de I’environnement et de la voix de notre conscience? 
Resterons-nous sur une route de collision, laissant sans rEponse la 
question finale: POURQUOI? 


4 


THE CAMPING ADVISOR 


An earlier editorial dealt with anorexia nervosa, 
a serious eating disorder. But you didn’t men¬ 
tion bulimia. Studies have shown that half of 
anorexics are also bulimic and whereas anor¬ 
exics tend to deny their illness, bulimics are 
aware of their eating problems. If they are so 
similarly associated how can you mention one 
without the other? 

H.R., Etobicoke, Ontario 

A good point. The Editorial dealt with beauty and 
self-image and reflected on the death of Karen 
Carpenter who was diagnosed as anorexic. 

Approximately 30% of all Canadian college 
and university females have a recognized eating 
disorder ranging from anorexia to bulimia. 
Bulimics go through a ritual called the binge- 
purge syndrome; they will eat mounds and 
mounds of food (the binge) and then proceed to 
punish themselves by vomiting (the purge) and 
taking heavy doses of laxatives. We’ve read 
cases where women have consumed up to 
55,000 calories in ONE binge! Some women 
have taken up to 200 laxatives in one day! 
Vomiting disrupts the electrolyte balance in the 
body, is hard on the stomach, liver and kidney, 
and causes a drop in blood-sugar which creates 
a vicious cycle to eat more. 

Bulimics have been known to steal and even 
prostitute to support their habit which costs a lot 
of money. 

The problems, like anorexics, are to be found 
in our culture - we abhor fat people, emphasize 
shape, slimness and diet, and we condition girls 
to believe that you’ve got to look good and 
conform to be loved in today's world. A 20 year 
social-psychological analysis of PLAYBOY 
magazine indicates a shift in perceived beauty 
from larger breasts and hips to smaller breasts, 
smaller waists and narrower hips. This is 
ominous because it will mean more trouble and 
turmoil for today’s teens and pre-teens unless 
we can begin to counteract the massive effects 
of media persuasion on personality and self- 
image. 

Bulimia, anorexia and poor nutrition are all to 
be considered serious enough to warrant med¬ 
ical intervention. Even if you’re not sure, call a 
doctor. Prevention in these areas is so essential 
and camps can help preach values of respect 
and non-conformity; teach nutrition and healthy 
dietary awareness; help kids understand 
RESPONSIBILITY because no one else can 
save you. 

* * ★ 

I have a 10 year old son who recently had an 
accident and now can walk only with the use of 
crutches and braces. We were planning to send 
him to camp with a number of friends next 
summer. Now my husband and I are having 
second thoughts. Some people we’ve asked 
have suggested ‘specialty camps’, that is, 
camps for the disabled. However many of our 
friends are urging us to continue with our plans 
to send him to the camp where his friends are, 
the camp which we had originally chosen. What 
things should we consider before making a 


decision because we are really in a dilemma? 

J.E., Elliot Lake, Ontario 

There is no simple answer! We feel that the 
major consideration, which we didn’t read in 
your letter, is where does your son want to go? 
How does your son feel about his disability? Is 
he fairly-well integrated into ‘normal school’? 
Has he made friendships with other children 
who live with a similar disability? 

Arguments can be made for both sides. 
Specialty camps, as you mention, are obviously 
better equipped, physically, to deal with par¬ 
ticular special conditions. The counselling and 
program staff and medical personnel often have 
greater expertise with the area of specialization. 
Also, the Staff.Camper Ratio is usually higher 
than in ‘normal camps'. Funding subsidies are 
available to some specialty camps through their 
sponsoring organizations, foundations, charit¬ 
able donors, etc. which partially cover the addi¬ 
tional costs of operating a site and program for 
disabled campers. 

On the other hand, many people feel that inte¬ 
gration is a better philosophical stand than seg¬ 
regation. Some specialty camps inadvertently 
reinforce the camper’s belief that he is different 
whereas, many normal camps can easily inte¬ 
grate a child into the camp and camp program, 
thereby reinforcing the child's self-concept that 
he is not different except in a small way. 

We would recommend that you get a strong 
sense about what your son wants to do. Speak 
to Camp Directors of both types of camps. As 
well, speak to parents of disabled children going 
to both types of camps. Regardless of whether 
your child is disabled, the main considerations 
for anyone choosing a camp is to be comfort¬ 
able with all aspects of the camp operation: the 
camp director and his interest in your son’s 
growth; the camp philosophy; the camp staff 
and counsellors; the camp program, what is a 
typical day like for the campers? and the camp 
site and buildings, how accessible is it? 

The next issue of Canadian Camping will deal 
specifically with some of the issues facing 
disabled campers. 

* * * 


We have a camp reunion coming up next year 
and we’d like to make a slide-sound presenta¬ 
tion. The reunion is being held in a large hotel 
and we’d like to make it as professional as 
possible. Where do we begin? 

D.L., Willowdale, Ontario 

Do you have a budget? If money is no object, I 
would call a professional sound consultant; he 
would write your script, arrange and/or take 
your slides, tape music, voice, narrative and 
orchestrate the finished product through a dis¬ 
solve unit that runs automatically. Cost? About 
$1,000 per minute of the time of the finished 
product; that is, a 10 minute slide show would 
cost $10,000, a 5 minute slide show $5,000 etc. 


If money is a consideration, we would recom¬ 
mend putting the show in the hands of a couple 
of your Staff members. You probably have very 
gifted writers, photographers, technicians and 
aspiring sound professionals who would wel¬ 
come this project as an opportunity to do some¬ 
thing for the camp's reunion and have fun 
working together. 

Firstly the script is most important. What will 
your message be? Is it strictly for nostalgia - a 
one-shot reunion event? Or are you looking at a 
slide presentation to eventually show prospec¬ 
tive parents? Once your purpose is established, 
write the script! Say what messages you want to 
convey. 

Next, determine what music you would like 
and where it will go. Some music will be used for 
a voice-over effect, some music can stand on its 
own to open or close the show or you might 
want a musical interlude in the middle of the 
show. 

Next, make your tape. This can be time- 
consuming because it may require several 
"takes” in some parts. Once you have your 
finished product - duplicate it immediately and 
work from the duplicate and save your master 
tape for the show itself. 

Finally, layout all of your slides and begin to 
arrange them to the voice and/or music. Then, 
practise, practise and practise again! 

Most hotels have adequate sound systems 
but it’s still wise to be prepared to use as much 
of yours as possible - trial and error: feed your 
tape through the hotel sound system, then play it 
through your machine amplified by micro¬ 
phones and compare the sound, distortion, tone 
and quality. Rehearse it through at least once at 
the hotel. 

Good luck; it can be a lot of fun and a lot of 
work but the finished product may well be one 
that lasts and lasts. 

Thank you for your letters. We regret that we 
cannot answer each one personally; however, 
we will endeavour to publish the most interest¬ 
ing and provocative ones. Address all letters to: 
The Camping Advisor, c/o The Editor, Canadian 
Camping, 1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, Toronto, 
Ontario M5M 3Z1. 



5 


9 


jMayiPAi 

jo yijp ayi uo aj 8 |/\j puBqsny puB uojBys 
oj saysjM isag jpis uo uojBys ssjiu nays a/v\ 
Ajbpubp isbj ssaj6 
-uoo 6u!diueo |Buojieujaiu| aqi 6u|punojjns 
s^sbj jo pbijAuj aqi uo Aippadsa - >jjom jay ub 
uo qof 6u!puBisjno ub pip ays 2861 JaqiuaAON 
aouis iSjdAj jno sb pa>|jOM pay uojByg 
Pliyo puooas jay jo yjjp ayi oj joud jaqopo u| 
OOV/VOO ayi JJ9| os|B ssy uBiupaaj j uojays 
jyonoj u| Abjs pus Ajbaj 6u|yiAjaAa 
joj s>|UByi uousanb 6u|daa>|>poq b sajayj 
asBo u| .auoyd ayj jo pua, ayj jb mis si Ajay\j 
sisajaiuj Aubuj jay appoiu 
-ujoooB 01 y6noua apixaij aq ubo appayos jay 
ajayM aiuoy jay luojj >jjom aouBpajj 6upp mou 
sj Ajbiaj ‘aojAjas jo sjBaA z/ t Q jaijy jjbjs puojpu 
ayi ija| ssy anssi ipj ayj u| ..ajnqui,, spsjsad 
>PBp ayj ujojj aaou>| him noA sb ‘Aoy Ajb|/\| 

isiiaMajBj puoj 



jauaj| ‘pjBoqB aiuoo|a/\/\ *wd 00^0 01 ujb 
0C : 6 luojj Aapuj 01 ABpuoi/\| aJB sjnoy s,auaj| 
jyjjoj 6ujund 3 jb sjaqiuauj uoubpossb 
yopM sijojja ayi spuBisjapun ays os ‘s>jsbi 
jaajunioA Aubuj 01 atuii ajoAap 01 pa6BUBiu auaj| 
•sAoq OMj jo A|!ujbj jpyi pajjBjs 3 uAb/v\ ‘puaq 
-sny jay pus auaj| uay/\/\ aouauadxa 6ujdaa>j 
->poq pub iBuaiajoas aAjsuajxa say auaj| 
>961 u| ABpiioy 6 u|>jjom b uo bpbubq 01 aiuBO 
auaj| ‘puaiioos ‘mo6sbio jo oaijbu v aoijjo 
|buo!jbn ayi IB AjBiajoag sb ddBu>j auaj| ‘sjy\j 
jo juaujiujoddB ayi aounouuB 01 pasB3|d 3 jb a/v\ 

JJB1S M0N 


SM 3 N» 3 !«Oieuo!»eN 




O'd ‘uoi6uiysB/v\ ‘Z861 

‘Z-L HOHVIAI ssaj6uoo 6u|dujBQ puoipujaiui ixau ayi jo 6uiuuB|d ayi ui 
ajBdpjijad pua aioiuojd 01 paaj6B SBy VOO ‘sjauuaid a6uaj 6uo| ayi joj 

BIUJOJIIBQ ‘o 63!Q UBS 

Auuns ui pz~ iz qaj ‘uouuaAuoQ >86U puaua 01 sn aijAUj VOV ayi 0861 
‘H-Ol ‘aon 6u(iaai/\j pjaog jiayi jo uoiijod a joj ujayi uiof 01 Aimnijoddo 
ayi pappajddB 1 uojjBpossv 6u|dwBQ uaouaiuv ayi ujojj s6uiiaaj9 

amjy pub Ajjai noA >|UByi 
SadjuuiAA u| sjauBUJ |Boi6o|oyoAsd uj iuBi|nsuoo b A|iuajjno puB sjaaA 
Aubuj joj japaai dujBO ‘N3H00 3INd V sbm japB3| aojnosaj ayi 0861. ‘91.-81. 
PO uoipg ib JBUjUjas luawdopAaQ aAjjnoaxg jaaiunpA ayi P3 ziub6jo 
A jjai 8861- uj >jsbi puomppB ub pBy papisajd aoiA ujaisa/\/\ VOO ayi 



'( ub|/\j) d3llVH>JHng Add3JL Moea OO‘0$ JB sapu-jiSBH jo sa6B>joBd VOO 
ayi asByojnd 01 anujiuoo ||,noA sadoy ays puB uoipBiisaAui siyi papidujoo 
(* u 0) NOSlAJVdV 13NVr siSBq pui b uo paidwauB sbm yoiy/w iuai| ub sbm 
saps NBiag 986L u| aouajajuoo puo|pu b 6u|ujaouoo Apnig Aiiiiqisaaj 
b 6u|pnpuoo joj Ciuo) 3SHV3d >JOVr 01 s>juByi papuBqsp mou aja 
sdnoj6 asoyi puB >jjom jiayi papidujoo aAay uBiujpyQ aojoj >jsbi aajyi 

paujBu uaaq jaA pu SBy papjsajd 
aoiA Mau v isinoq saysjM pooo juapisajd aojA iBJjuaQ sb pau6jsaj SBy 
smoq ‘sapj aAjjnoaxg u? aAjas 01 paujujjad pu aja saaAo|duja sy oaqano 
np sduJBO sap uoijbioossv ayi jo jjbjs ayi paupf say NV3r SID01 
ujbjBojcJ JOS!Apv/juBi|nsuoo pajjno ayi 6u|pnpuj spafojd pjaAas 
aiBuipjooo him pua uBUJjpyo sujbj6ojcJ luaujdopAaa djysjapaa-i VOO syi 
mou s| pBd SNVO 01 joinqjjpoo aujii-6uo| b s; pub ‘s6ja no ajoysjjo joj 
sujBj6ojd ssauijd |BO|sAyd pub 6u!U(bji Aoua6jauig 6u(do|aAap luannsuoQ 
ujBj6oJd b Sj (Bjioos baon) H3110d IDVd aauiujujoo luaujuojjAug ayi 
jo uosjadjpyo Mau ayi s| uBap aojAjas isajoj Buaqiv ayi joj juBiinsuoo 
aouBpajj b sb 6u!>jjom s\ pub S|3abji pijom jay ujojj paujnpj SBy ( biiv) 
>JNDd NV3P VOO 9M1 01 dpsjapBai 6 u!ai6 uaujjpyo Mau omj aABy a m 

•6u|UJ00yiJ0j aq him sipiap ajo^l ‘886L 
isn6n\/ u| app oijpads b uo bpbubq ssojob diuao Ajoab ui ppy aq 01 juaAa 
uoiiBjqaiao b 3Z!ub6jo 01 puB :yjnoA uo 6uissnooj M 6uidujB0 uBjpauaQ,, jo 
anssi anbjun b aonpojd :doys>jJo/\A s.JOpajjQ duiBQ ypoi b ppy :oi sadoy 
VOO MinoA jo jboa |buo!jbuj3iu| ayi sb suohbn paiiun ayi Aq pajBpap 
jBaA ayi *9861- 6uunp VOO Joj spafojd aajyi pazipuij ssy m3jo oiujbuAp 
S jyi ( o a) S3NAVH VIA1AS PUB ( ano) OHVdOOO H313d ‘( juo) H31AJI1V1 
a NHOP TQ'N) d31M0d NVI :sjaqmauj Buimoipj ayi ssy ‘y6nn Aq pajpyo 
aauiujujoo ayi aojoj >jsbi ypoi jo jb3a iBuoipujapi s.voo jo uBUjjiayo 
os|B Sj y6nn uoiuoujpg uj pajjuao uoubz!ub6jo iBuoiponpa ppauj 
-uojjAua ibuoiibu b ‘S033S Joj jopajja uiBj6oJd ayi S| SdllllHd H9DH 

>861- 'IZ HOdVlAI ‘AVCI ONIdlAIVO 
1VN0I1VN spyi *6u|duJB0 apiuojd oj Buppujos op :ai uo paMajAjaiuj 
aq :uo|ibjs oipbj pool jnoA uo juaujaounouuB aofAjas Ojiqnd a joj >|sb Uadad 
A|>|aaM jo A||ap jnoA ubo lAipnqnd |boo| yjiM dpy ubo ooa suoiibioossv |Bp 
-uiAOJd 01 uojinquisip A|jb3 joj ApBaj spuaiBUJ ayi say uBUJjpyo uojioujojd 
puB Aipiiqrid ‘SI113 3INdVlAJ Buyds jo Abpisjij ayi ‘islz qojew sj j|-^86L u| 
AVQ ONIdWVO 1VN0I1VN jo app ayi 6uyaqiuaujaj apnoji ou aAay him noA 


iu|Bd uA| 0 oop :Aq 

3 AIJ 03 dSy 3 d S,lN 30 IS 3 dd 


Volunteer Leaders Sharpen Executive Skills 

by: Marjorie Booth, Executive Director 


Bolton Camp and Conference Centre was the 
location of the Volunteer Executive Develop¬ 
ment Workshop for twenty-one provincial and 
national leaders last October 13-15th. 

Terry Burkhalter, Chairman of the Executive 
Development Workshop Task Force was re¬ 
sponsible for all the arrangements content and 
for working with our resource leader. What a 
terrific job “TB” did! Last May during our Win¬ 
nipeg Board Meeting, “TB" reported that Arnie 
Cohen had agreed to be the facilitator for this 
event. 

Fitness Canada was another major factor in 
the success of the weekend. Through a special 
project contribution, the delegates flew to 
Toronto to participate in this opportunity for 
personal and professional development. 

Cohen had prepared a fairly intense schedule 
since he had only two days for this workshop on 
leadership and management skills. 

During the first evening the facilitator spent 
some time orienting the group to the flow of the 
workshop. We began with a discussion on goal¬ 
setting and then were assigned to small groups 
to begin an exercise on consensus decision¬ 
making. By the end of the session, we had con¬ 
firmed that groups are most successful when 
they involve everyone in the decision-making 
process. Further, the group’s performance is 
greater than the individual’s performance. 
Finally, the individual’s commitment to carry 
through the group’s decision is greater when all 
have participated in the planning. 

Friday morning, the session focussed on 
“Learning from Experience” - the positive 
aspects of critique in order to really learn and 
benefit from the experience. In the small groups, 
our task was to critique the small group’s perfor¬ 
mance from the evening before. The results of 
this session were then considered in conjunc¬ 
tion with another planning technique. 

Synergistic Planning as a model is very 
different from the “Traditional Planning" which 
many organizations use. 

Traditional Planning focusses on the past/ 
present as the major reference point. This 
perspective leads to reacting to what has 
happened/is happening. 

Synergistic Planning focusses on the future, 
what things should be like, as the major 
reference point. It also emphasizes relevant 
involvement and participation of those direct¬ 
ly affected by change. This perspective leads 
to the development of new methods, new 
performance measures and meaningful 
goals that serve as guides to action. Thus 
individualsand groups can be self-directing. 
As a result, while there is dissatisfaction, 
there is also hope and enthusiasm for and 
commitment to the changes required. 

The Synergistic Planning Technique uses 
three steps: 



Arnold Cohen, Workshop Facilitator 


1. Identify desired outcomes 

(Example: Association goals and volunteer 
goals.) 

2. Critique current situation 

(Example: How effective are we now in 
achieving association objectives through 
volunteers’ efforts in current set-up?) 

How do we currently interact in decision¬ 
making?) 

3. Action Steps to Close Gap between 1 and 2. 

(Example: What definite and specific action 
steps must the individual members take in 
order to get the desired outcomes deter¬ 
mined in Step 1.) 

For the afternoon session on Friday, Cohen 
reviewed the grid theory of management. This 
task/people concern matrix presents five dif¬ 
ferent managerial styles. One of these styles is 
usually the predominant style of any manager. 
As we discussed the implications of this theory, 
it was clear that these styles are evident in many 
groups. Therefore the leader must be aware of 
these motivating factors for the members in 
order to facilitate the efforts of the group to 
reach the objectives - with satisfaction. (Syner¬ 
gistic Planning.) 

Moving back into the small groups, we parti¬ 
cipated in a consensus/bargaining exercise. 
The small group had to reach consensus on a 
specific problem - then delegates were sent to 
another group to convince them that our plan 
was correct. The “reward” in this case was 
points, and the debate certainly enabled all to 
see their own, predominant managerial style! 
This exercise again reinforced the higher com¬ 
mitment of individualstoa plan which thegroup 
as a whole have determined is the best choice 
of action. 

Later Friday evening, we reviewed some of 


the theory on communication. Cohen covered 
the barriers to communication as well as pat¬ 
terns of communications. Again, many of the 
provincial delegates were able to identify indi¬ 
viduals who clearly personified these patterns. 
This session provided some new information for 
some delegates. For many, however, it was a 
good review of the importance of these com¬ 
munication factors: facial expression, body 
position, muscle tone, breathing tempo, voice 
tone and words. 

Saturday morning was the last session for the 
Executive Development Seminar. Still in the 
small groups, Cohen explained that the goal 
was to do individual action plans for construc¬ 
tive, self-directed change. We incorporated a 
process of critiquing individual behaviour dur¬ 
ing the two day workshop; identifying our overall 
style; identifying five specific growth areas (i.e. 
where we want to be); completing an individual 
action plan for one of these growth areas. Later, 
the small groups offered an additional perspec¬ 
tive of how the individual appeared to others, 
both positively and negatively, during the sem¬ 
inar. The individual’s action plan was consider¬ 
ed by the group and valuable feedback was 
offered by the members. 

The facilitator completed the seminar by re¬ 
viewing the original objectives of the seminar. 
Although many of the exercises had impacted 
the delegates personally, the managerial and 
leadership information was also easily trans¬ 
ferable to our work in the association. 

The intent of the seminar was to increase the 
participant’s skills in Effective Management 
Techniques. Specifically, the facilitator, Arnold 
Cohen, covered the following management 
topics with the group: 

1. Goal-setting 

2. Consensus Decision-making 

3. Effective Critique 

4. Synergistic Planning v. Traditional Planning 

5. Managerial Grid Theory 

6. Consensus/Bargaining 

7. Effective Communication 

8. Study of Individual Management Styles 

9. Developing Specific Action Plan 

The premise for this seminar was that if we 
could improve the managerial abilities of the 
association leaders, they would be more effec¬ 
tive in their various leadership roles at the 
provincial and national levels. 

The CCA/ACC is very grateful to Fitness 
Canada for providing a contribution towards air¬ 
fares, meeting and consultant expenses for this 
event. More than that, we appreciate the time 
and effort extended by the volunteer leaders 
who participated: 

Nfld: Wallce Gregory, Janice Stroud 
NS: Leroy Hodder, Ian MacArthur, 

George Matthews 

NB: Glenn Barned, Ian Fowler, Gillian Young 
See Volunteer Leaders - Page 19 


1 



FIND OUT ABOUT CAMPS NOW! 

The Canadian Camping Association has 618 
summer camp members across the country. 

There is the right camp for your child. An 
educated choice is always the best choice. 

Find out what is offered to you NOW. 


National 
Camping Day 
March 21, 1984 


CAMPERS 
Wear your 

camp T-shirt 
on 

March 21st. 






Renseignez-vous sur les camps d’ete 

L’Association des Camps du Canada compte 
618 camps membres a travers tout le pays, 
parmi lesquels vous trouverez le camp 
approprie pour votre enfant. Mieux vous serez 
renseigne mieux vous cholsirez. Demandez 
des MAINTENANT des informations sur les 
possibilites qui vous sont offertes. 

Journee nationale 
des camps 
Le 21 mars, 1984 


des aujourd 9 hiii! 

CAMPEURS 
Portez vos 
gilets-T 
avec l’ecusson 
du camp 
le 21 mars. 


N’ATTENDEZ 
PAS LE 
DERNIER 




LETTERS continued 

which our society is founded, and a great price 
has been paid for them. Unfortunately, part of 
the price of freedom is the abuse that sometimes 
occurs. I think history demonstrates that the 
cure for abuse is not legislation, for in the long 
run legislation tends to become oppressive 
itself. The banning of Christian activity from 
many U.S. schools should be a sufficient exam¬ 
ple. In many places confessing Christians are 
not permitted to use school or university facili¬ 
ties for prayer or group activities among them¬ 
selves. in cases like these legislation is used to 
remove all religion rather than safeguard true 
religion. 

Other articles in the autumn issue contained 
more constructive suggestions. COMA’s 
approach of education, conferences, promotion 
of study, raising of awareness and dissemina¬ 
tion of information is laudable. Thank you for 
raising the issue and for providing us with per¬ 
spectives. As a Christian camper, may I suggest 
that our anti-cult energies are better directed 
into areas other than anti-cult legislation. 

Gary S. Myatt 
Wolfville. N.S. 

/ must disagree with your reasoning! It’s like 
saying “child molestation is wrong and morally 
abhorrent but the last thing we need is legisla¬ 
tive protection through the criminal code - 
rather, let’s have seminars, education and the 
dissemination of information to all children and 
adults to raise their awareness of the molesta¬ 
tion problem." Nonsense! Wrong is wrong 
whether it is the molesting of a child or the 
deceitful, fraudulent enticement (psychological 
kidnapping) of an adolescent or adult by a cult. 
Such recruitment and indoctrination MUST be 
made illegal as it eventually will! 

C.O.M.A. is IN FAVOUR of such legislation and 
actively endorses it; they were appalled at the 
Ontario government's whitewash of the issue 
through the one-man commission headed up by 
Dr. Daniel Hill. In the meantime, while we wait for 
social values to change, which will prompt legis¬ 
lative amendments (as in the drinking and 
driving issue), all that is left is education, 
information-sharing etc. That is the point we are 
making, as it is the point of C.O.M.A. 


I appreciated much of the general comments 
made by Ian Haworth on “The Cult Crisis" and 
from a broad perspective they were valuable 
points but from a camping perspective - and in 
particular from a religious/church perspective 
- they left me hanging! 

But the redeeming feature, at least from my 
viewpoint, was the unique way John Vissers 
gave perspective to cults and religion and 
camping in his article. It was almost as if he had 
already read the previous writings, realized the 
assumptions that could be made in reference to 
religious/church camps, and committed himself 
to the task of clearly setting forth the cause and 
unique features of the church camp. In light of 
the tremendous rise in cult involvement during 
recent years, I feel that it is a must, especially for 


those involved in church camping, to under¬ 
stand the distinctives of this “religious" camping 
experience indifference to the experience of 
cult involvement. 

This is the first time in a long while«that 
someone has written as clearly and as forth¬ 
rightly on behalf of church camping in Canadian 
Camping. It was good to see your sensitivity to 
the camping parties that could be affected by 
such an editorial thrust. 

Professor John H. Wilkinson 

Chairman, Christian Education Department 

Ontario Bible College/Theological Seminary 


I want to express my appreciation to the Cana¬ 
dian Camping magazine for the content in your 
autumn, 1983 issue. 

Reading the editorial “Cults + Camps = 
Death!!" was scary. I’d admit, particularly when 
so often religion and cultism is equated. It was 
very important for the magazine to go beyond 
the reporting done in the editorial and include 
John Visser’s article “Christian and Church 
Camping in Perspective” along with COMA's 
aims and goals. 


Responding personally to the challenge of 
full-time camping as a profession and as a form 
of meaningful ministry, I find it exciting to do 
camping, but behind all the nitty-gritty is an 
important philosophical foundation that under¬ 
girds my ministry. To add to Visser’s excellent 
article, I share the following which I use as the 
base for my understanding of Church Camping 
as an extension of congregational life: 

“Church camping is one viable and effective 
means for furthering the ministry of the Church. 
Persons are provided with a living experience in 
a “place apart" over an extended period of time, 
and are enabled to explore God’s story, to 
experience the vitality of Christian community, 
and to grow in the faith. Church camping helps 
bring about the reconciliation through Christ of 
oneself, to God, one’s neighbour, and the en¬ 
vironment. Through its programs, persons are 
encouraged to discover who they are and why 
they are responsible for their communities and 
the world in which God has placed them." 

Terry Burkhalter 

Executive Director for "Camps with Meaning” 
Winnipeg, Manitoba 



10 



GROUP DYNAMICS EXERCISE 

by: John Roberts 



Many of the past issues of Canadian Camping 
have contained Group Dynamics Exercises ... 
tools by which we can get people to feel more 
comfortable in contributing to a group, and tools 
through which members of a group can reveal 
more of their own feelings, values and attitudes 
in a comfortable, non-threatening situation. 

It becomes important to realize that in order to 
assist a group to achieve these objectives, exer¬ 
cises and “gimmicks” such as these are not 
obligatory. I recently heard a Senior Staff mem¬ 
ber at a camp say, “I can’t really lead this group, 
because I don’t have enough of those exer¬ 
cises”. 

There are other means of making members of 
a group more open and involved. There are 
other means of helping individuals express 
themselves more sensitively and honestly. 

The ART of being able to ask a question 
becomes extremely vital. “How are you?” "What 
do you think?” “How’s it going?”. Such ques¬ 
tions often elicit very little information. 

Through personal experience, I'd like to pass 
along some examples which might be adapted 
to other situations and environments. 

First Senior Staff Meeting 

Probably a few weeks before the commence¬ 
ment of camp, the Director will meet with the 
senior people who will be working together as 
the primary leaders of the camp. Some might be 
new to the camp. (Let’s make the assumption 
they have been oriented in the philosophy and 
structure of the camp). Others perhaps have 
been counsellors, and are now assuming more 
responsibility as a member of the senior staff. 
And of course others have been in senior 
positions before. 

If the senior staff cannot work together, or 
even appear not to be working as a team, the 
director already has one strike against him. 
Therefore developing that senior team is essen¬ 
tial. They must get to know each other as people, 
as team members, as individuals. They must feel 
comfortable and secure in expressing their 
feelings and suggestions. 

As is the case with anyone, the really ‘deep’ 
stuff cannot be discussed until everyone re¬ 
laxes, feels comfortable, and senses that they 
are soon going to become part of something 
significant. I believe the first ‘meeting’ should be 
fun, easy-going and certainly non-threatening. 

Game A 

Ask one person to go out of the room. Those 
remaining are seated in a circle, and told they 
can only respond Yes or No to a question from 
the questioner. However, the answer must be AS 
THE PERSON ON THE LEFT WOULD ANSWER. 

Therefore, everyone must be totally familiar 
with the person on each side of them ... what 
they are wearing (because you don’t want to 
give away the clue by looking at someone’s feet 
or hair). The ‘outsider’ is brought back to the 
room, and is told he must determine from the 
clues why the answers seem so confusing. 


e.g. Are you wearing shorts? (The person to 
whom the question is directed might be 
wearing shorts, but the person on his left 
might be wearing slacks. The answer would 
therefore be NO.) 

Are you married? 

Do you go to school? 

Have you been at this camp before? 

Are your eyes blue? 

Are you wearing a watch? 

Are you wearing a green shirt? 

This continue until the ‘questioner’ determines 
the clue. 

Game B 

Ask another person to leave the room. Every¬ 
one else is advised that they must give some 
specific instructions to the ‘outsider’. E.g.- Take 
off Mary’s shoe, walk with it across the room to 
Susan, take off Susan’s watch, and then walk to 
the couch and place both of the articles under 
the centre cushion on the couch. 

The manner in which the instruction and 
direction is given is only by humming ... louder 
for “hot” and softer when the ‘outsider’ gets 
“cold". No instructions are given, when the 
person comes back in the room, he will stare at 
the group which has just started to hum. With a 
little move toward Mary, the humming will get 
louder. 

Games such as these might appear to be silly 
to a so-called group of mature senior staff mem¬ 
bers, but the rationale can simply be... I’ll like to 
try out a couple of games which you might want 
to use sometime with your younger counsellors 
or campers. 

The first session should be relaxed, fun, 
somewhat silly, non-threatening. 


At the conclusion of the first session, the 
program for the next few hours or days should 
be outlined, so that the participants know what 
will be expected, and they will feel comfortable 
knowing that they will have an opportunity to 
ask their questions. 

The last item before a break should have 
some more depth ... questions which will bring 
out some fears and concerns. (I usually like to 
give these questions orally, but the answers 
should be written.) 

What two things excite you most about this 
coming summer? 

Sample answers 

- Being given more responsibility 

- Seeing old friends 

What do you think worries the campers most 
about coming to camp? List 3. 

Sample answers 

- Afraid to make a mistake 

- Will the other kids like me 

- Will I like my counsellor 

If you were a counsellor, what would you want 
from your section director? List 4. 

Sample answers 

- Help to know how to handle problem 

campers 

- Let me know how I’m doing 

- Not showing favouritism 

- Help me with program ideas 

Name three personal qualities which you 
possess which will make our camp better this 
summer? (Note: Personal questions such as 
this, should only come after some of the more 
general ones listed above). 

Sample answers 

- Enthusiasm 

- Good sense of humour 

- Good athlete 


11 



Name three areas in which you feel you would 
like to improve this summer? 

Sample answers 

- To become less impatient 

- To be fair to all of the kids, and not just 

my favorites 

- To learn how to give constructive criticism 

without losing a friend 

The answers should be collected by the 
director, who should then (in the break) assess 
the concerns. If an agenda has not already been 
planned, the above remarks are often sufficient 
to create an agenda which could easily last for a 
week-end: 

■ The meaning of your new responsibilities 

■ How to make campers feel comfortable 

■ Program ideas for the summer, so that the 
kids have fun 

■ What are the attributes of a good counsellor, 
and how can I, the section director, bring out 
these attributes 

■ Camper problems 

■ How to give suggestions, advice and 
criticism (there could be a lot of role-playing 
in this exercise). 

In order to make the time period of the first or 
second meeting more beneficial, you might then 
go through another series of questions, which 
becomre much more personal - but are de¬ 
signed to get the group together as a team, 
through praise. Paper might be available for 
participants to jot down their answers, but the 
response should be verbal. 

What attributes does each of the other people 
in this room have which will benefit our camp 
this summer? Name 3. Have each person quick¬ 
ly express his feelings about each of the others. 
Sample response from Tim 

- Martin is enthusiastic, sensitive and open. 
Peggy is experienced, imaginative and 

honest. 

Dale is a happy guy, organized and really 
knows kids. 

When the group feels comfortable, you might 
also ask the question of each person (oral 
response), ‘‘What worries you most about the 
job you are going to do this summer?” 

Sample responses 

- Can I handle all the nitty-gritty part of 

organization? 

- I’m worried about standing up in front of the 

camp or leading a section campfire. 

- I’m not sure how I’ll get along with kids I 

don’t like. 

- Will my friends who are still counsellors 

like me? 

By being so open, other members of the group 
become understanding, sympathetic and help¬ 
ful. The question becomes a very positive group 
development exercise. 

Another opportunity for self-analysis (while 
assessing others) is to ask your senior staff or 
counsellors some written questions mid-way 
during the camp period. The format of the ques¬ 
tion is important, if you want some definite back¬ 
ground material. 

Which counsellor in your section was the 
strongest in July? Specify three things you did 
with him to make him stronger? (It is this second 


question which allows the supervisor to more 
completely assess his role). 

Name one of the ‘top’ LIT’s in camp. List five 
characteristics which make him ‘tops’. 

Which one of your counsellors grew the most 
in July? Why? 

In working with your counsellors or LIT’s, 
which situation did you find to be most frustrat¬ 
ing? What did you do about it? 

Name one camper in your section who did not 
enjoy herself in July. Why not? (Give 3 in¬ 
stances). What specific actions did you take to 
help this camper? 

What disappointed you most about yourself 
last month? 

What pleased you the most about yourself in 
July? 

In our first senior staff meeting you mentioned 
that you were worried about certain parts of 
your job this summer, (remind them of what was 
said). How do you feel about those points now? 

Some key in working together dynamically is 
to be aware of the following: 

■ Be aware of the physical comfort of the 

participants. 

■ Let them know time frames. 

■ Let them ease into personal comments. 

■ Be flexible. 

■ Allow everyone to participate. 

■ Change the pace. 

■ Know when to withdraw (allow others to take 

their chance to be leaders and chairmen). 

■ Ensure that no one feels threatened ... all 

comments and all suggestions are 
received openly and without editorial 
comment. 



o 

o 

(0 

o 

QQ 

c 

-c 

5 


POEM 

About School 

He always wanted to say things. 

But no one understood. 

He always wanted to explain things. 

But no one cared. 

So he drew. 

Sometimes he would just draw and it wasn’t 
anything. He wanted to carve it in stone 
or write it in the sky. 

He would lie out on the grass and look up in 
the sky and it would be only him and the sky 
and the things inside that needed saying. 

And it was after that, that he drew the picture. 

It was a beautiful picture. He kept it under 
the pillow and would let no one see it. 

And he would look at it every night and think 
about it. And when it was dark, and his eyes 
were closed, he could still see it. And it was 
all of him. And he loved it. 

When he started school he brought it with him. 
Not to show anyone, but just to have with 
him like a friend. 

It was funny about school. 

He sat in a square, brown desk like all the 
other square, brown desks and he thought 
it should be red. 

And his room was a square, brown room. 

Like all the other rooms. And it was tight 
and close. And stiff. 

He hated to hold the pencil and the chalk, 
with his arm stiff and his feet flat on the floor, 
stiff, with the teacher watching and 
watching. 

And then he had to write numbers. And they 
weren’t anything. They were worse than the 
letters that could be something if you put 
them together. 

And the numbers were tight and square and 
belated the whole thing. 

The teacher came and'spoke to him. She told 
him to wear a tie like all the other boys. 

He said he didn’t like them and she said 
it didn’t matter. 

After that they drew. And he drew all yellow 
and it was the way he felt about morning. 
And it was beautiful. 

The teacher came and smiled at him. “What’s 
this?” she said. "Why don’t you draw 
something like Ken’s drawing? Isn’t that 
beautiful?" 

It was all questions. 

After that his mother bought him a tie and he 
always drew airplanes and rocket ships 
like everyone else. And he threw the 
old picture away. 

And when he lay out alone looking at the sky, 
it was big and blue and all of everything, 
and he wasn’t anymore. 

He was square inside and brown, and his 
hands were stiff, and he was like anyone 
else. And the thing inside him that needed 
saying didn’t need saying anymore. 

It had stopped pushing. It was crushed. Stiff. 

Like everything else. 

- Anonymous 


12 


ACID RAIN: 


Understanding the Problem at Camp 


by: Jeff Reading, Kilcoo Camp 

It is almost impossible to pick up a newspaper 
and not read something about acid rain. Acid 
rain has become a matter of increasing interest 
and debate. Numerous studies have demonstra¬ 
ted that acid rain is an extremely serious and 
rapidly growing problem. Not only is it having 
adverse effects on lakes and rivers in Canada 
and the United States, but there is growing 
indications that acid rain may also be having an 
adverse effect upon crops, forests, wildlife and 
even human health. This has serious conse¬ 
quences for us at camps. 

What Causes Acid Rain? 

Acid rain is snow or rain that contains signi¬ 
ficant amounts of sulphuric or nitric acid. While 
all rainfall is already slightly acidic (about pH 
5.6) due to the natural carbon dioxide in the 
atmosphere, precipitation in recent years is 
becoming more acidic. The sulphur dioxide 
(S0 2 ) and nitrogen oxides (N0 2 ) released into 
the air is first oxidized into sulphur and nitrate 
particles. If water vapour is present the particles 
further transform into sulphuric and nitric acid 
which either contaminates rain, snow or fog. 
Otherwise these particles can be deposited in 
their gaseous or dry form on the ground where 
groundwater and vegetation combine to later 
produce sulphuric and nitric acid. Manmade 
pollution is responsible for most of the sulphur 
and nitrogen oxides present in the atmosphere. 
In Canada the main precursors of acid rain are 
non-ferrous smelters, coal and oil burning gen¬ 
erators and refineries, as well as motor vehicle 
exhaust which makes up the single largest 
factor (forty percent of the total). In the 1970’s 
high smoke stacks including some as much as 
a quarter of a mile high were originally designed 
to reduce local pollution. But in fact they dis¬ 
pense pollutants over a greater area, sometimes 
up to 600 miles, making local problems provin¬ 
cial, state, and international concerns. 

The latest information now emerging indi¬ 
cates that the affected parts of Canada and the 
United States (more than a million square miles) 
are receiving at least twice as much acid as they 
can tolerate. There is little doubt that the hardest 
hit regions to date are the New England states, 
Ontario, Quebec and Nova Scotia. Precipitation 
that is 10 to 40 times more acidic than normal 
occurs frequently over much of this area. The 
average pH of rainfall is now 4.3. 

Acidity is measured by a pH value, determined 
by the use of a logarithmic scale ranging from 1 
(acidic) to 14 (alkaline) with 7 being neutral. It’s 
important to understand that a pH decrease 
from 6 to 5 represents an increase of ten times in 
acidity. A change from 6 to 4 represents a one 
hundred fold increase in acidity. 

These heavily affected areas lie generally 
downwind from the major sulphuric oxide emit¬ 
ters in the Ohio valley, INCO in Sudbury and the 


industrial regions of the Mid-Atlantic United 
States and Canada. To compound the problem 
aquatic systems in these areas have poor 
buffering capacities and the rock and soil lack 
natural alkalinity. 

What are the Effects of Acfd Rain? 

Acid rain poses a significant threat to fresh 
water resources, agriculture and forest growth, 
as well as man-made construction such as 
buildings, bridges, metal structures, cars, and 
paint. It may even affect human health. 

Ontario government officials estimate that 
about 48,000 Ontario lakes are sensitive to acid 
rain because of poor buffering capacities. Buf¬ 
fering capacity is a lake’s natural ability to 
neutralize acids. This is related to local under¬ 
lying rocks, soil and vegetation, with areas 
dominated by granite being most susceptible. 
Included on this list are 18,000 lakes in the 
Muskoka-Haliburton region where mean pH of 
rainfall now ranges between 3.9 and 4.4 or 
about forty times more acidic than normal. Some 
inlet streams have pH values of 3.0 during 
“spring shock”. In Quebec the problem mav be 
more serious. When the glaciers retreated 
across this region they removed much of the 
buffering material from the northern lakes and 
deposited them in the south. Most lakes north of 
the St. Lawrence River have already been acidi¬ 
fied. Further, eighty percent of the lakes and 
streams in the Laurentian Shield have acid 
levels high enough to kill plankton and interfere 
with fish reproduction. 

“Acid rain has caused the destruction of 
“many species of fish and their prey.” It also 
caused toxic trace metals to reach concen¬ 
trations in surface and ground waters that 
are “undesirable for human consumption.” 

National Academy of Science (USA) 

Biologists studying the effects of acid rain on 
fish have found that it affects different species in 
different ways. Acid attacks fish reproductive 
systems and kills or deforms young fry (which 
are even more vulnerable than eggs) and these 
effects occur before acid levels reach a point 
dangerous to adult fish. The danger to fish 
populations is particularly acute in spring when 
acid stored in snow causes a rapid decrease in 
pH levels; this is known as “spring shock”. Acid 
may also cause decalcification of fish bones. 
The fish skeletons weaken while muscles 
remain firm. Eventually the bodies of the fish 
become twisted and in some cases the fish 
loose the ability to swim. Research has shown 
that lowered pH dissolves aluminum and other 
metals allowing them to mix into the water. Even 
in small concentrations, these metals build up 
on fish gills clogging them and eventually caus¬ 
ing the fish to suffocate. Below a pH of 5.7, 
research has found that acid in the water alters 
the body chemistry, impairs organ circulation 


and interferes with the heart action. It's an ironic 
twist that as a lake acidifies and begins to die it 
becomes more attractive. However, the beauty 
ends when you look below the surface. 

In Ontario as of 1982 at least 140 lakes appear 
to be affected and unable to support fish popu¬ 
lations. A further 48,000 lakes are projected to 
go the same way over the next two decades 
unless something is done on the international 
level. Once the aquatic organisms die the whole 
food chain is affected. Thus other organisms 
such as clams, snails, crayfish, insects and 
frogs usually die before the fish do. 

Acid rain falls throughout Nova Scotia. The 
lowest pH readings (yearly average of 4.5 to 4.7) 
are found in the south and central parts of the 
province. Scientists see no danger to fish in the 
well buffered north, but the south western 
section is vulnerable, and they have the salmon 
losses to prove it. 

In New Brunswick parts of the province are 
vulnerable. Rain falling on the province aver¬ 
ages a pH of 4.6 and roughly one third of the 
lakes are poorly buffered. When what little 
buffering there is, is stripped away damage will 
come quickly. 

So far Newfoundland has no acid rain losses 
to point to, but damage is increasing. Large 
areas of the island and Labrador are poorly 
buffered. However, the province has taken the 
position that the cost of clean up should be born 
by the federal government. 

In the western regions of North America acid 
rain is not yet considered a present threat, but 
there are worries about its effect on recreational 
and commercial fisheries in the northern third of 
the provinces. The main propagators of sulphur 
and nitrogen oxides are automobiles and the 
petroleum industries in Alberta and the smelting 
operations in Flin Flon Manitoba. 

Effects of Acid Rain on Areas Other Than 
Aquatic Life 

Recent observation in Germany indicates that 
acid rain reduces soil fertility and forest growth. 
Acidified water running through the soil tends to 
pick up increased amounts of aluminum. This 
aluminum interrupts the absorption of important 
nutrients by tree roots and plants. Aluminum 
may also kill feeding roots and permit the 
invasion of fungi causing tree “dieback”. Acid 
rain may also remove important nutrients such 
as calcium, potassium, sodium, and magnesium 
from the soil. Acid rain alters leaf metabolism 
and lowers their resistance to disease and 
stress. The symptoms appear as lesions be¬ 
tween the veins on the leaf causing the top of the 
leaf to turn light tan or white in colour, while 
there is a bronzing of the under surface. The 
visible effects on conifers are premature needle 
drop, reduced radial and volume growth and 
early death. Plants considered susceptible to 


13 



THE ph ACIDIC PARAMETER 


(Battery acid, 

(Lemon juice, 

[ Average ph of rainfall in Toronto, Ontario - Peb, 1979. 

I Average ph of rainfall in the Muskoka-Hali burton area, 

/All fish dead, most frogs and insects dead. 

eggs die, Northern Pike, Suckers and Perch die, 
aal or "clean" rain. 


and diversity of species decreases, Bass and Trout die, toxic metals 
leached from soil and sediment, bacterial decomposers begin to die, 

and tadpoles begin to die. 



stilled water, 
ph of a healthy lake. 

Average annual ph of the Oreat lakes. 
Sea water. 

Baking soda. 

Ammonia, 
lye. 


ACIDIC 

acid rain are lichen, alfalfa, barley, buckwheat, 
clover, oats, rhubarb, spinach, squash and tobac¬ 
co. The highly respected National Academy of 
Science in the United States regrets that “long 
term permanent damage to the eco-system may 
result from the leaching out of necessary 
nutrients” 

The direct effects of acid rain on wildlife is not 
fully known or understood, but it has been 
suggested it has four possible effects; the con¬ 
tamination of drinking water, the reduction in 
nutritional value of food sources, a lost of habitat 
and a reduction in related species within the 
food chains. Many species of frogs, toads and 
salamanders for example breed in temporary 
pools formed by a mixture of rain water and melt 
water. Such pools show extremely low pH 
levels, and thus would be very harmful. 

There is also some indication that acid rain 
could have an indirect impact on human health. 
Acidification causes the leaching out of heavy 
metals such as mercury. Fish taken from acid 
waters show high concentrations of mercury 
and other heavy metals. (Inter-agency task 
force). In sufficient amounts these metals may 
become toxic. Acidification also can cause 
leaching of aluminum, lead and copper from the 
plumbing that supplies drinking water. If you 
own a camp in an area susceptible to acid rain 
it’s recommended that after a long period of 
non-use, the water be run for several minutes 
prior to using it. Finally the sulphate and nitrate 
particles that make up the dry form of acid 
precipitation are extremely fine, they are capa¬ 
ble of causing serious respiratory problems 
such as chronic bronchitis and emphysema. 


neutral basic 

What Steps are Being Taken to Reduce 
Acid Rain? 

Of the acid rain affecting Canada only fifty per 
cent originates in Canada. In susceptible 
regions like Muskoka-Haliburton as much as 
seventy-five percent originates in the United 
States. In the next two decades the projected 
total United States sulphur dioxide emissions 
are expected to decrease slightly by 1990 to 
about twenty three million tonnes from twenty 
four in 1980. However, these emissions are 
expected to increase to twenty seven million 
tonnes by the year 2000. In Canada, the pro¬ 
jected amount of sulphur dioxide emissions by 
the year 2000 is expected to be about 2.2 million 
tonnes per year, essentially the same level as in 
1980. the problem is a mutual one requiring 
cooperative efforts from both countries. 

The Government of Canada doesn’t set any 
mandatory criteria regarding the emissions of 
sulphur and nitric oxides. However, each prov¬ 
ince has established emission control levels 
within their jurisdictions. This system has re¬ 
sulted in standards generally as strict, and in 
some cases stricter than U.S. clean air guide¬ 
lines. Tight emission standards for the major 
stationary sources in Ontario represents the 
first significant effort to control acid rain. As a 
partial solution, scientists have conducted ex¬ 
periments on the use of lime in severely affected 
lakes to improve a lake’s buffering capacity. 
However, this is extremely costly, and is con¬ 
sidered a temporary and undesirable stop gap. 
Liming does not undo existing damage nor are 
the side effects on the rest of the ecology fully 
understood. According to almost all respected 


sources, including Environment Canada, “only 
the control of emissions of sulphur and nitrogen 
oxides” can significantly reduce acid rain. The 
technologies to do this exist. These include: 
scrubbers, which effectively remove ninety per¬ 
cent of the sulphur from the stack gases; coal 
washing which alone could only achieve twenty 
five percent of the needed reduction; hydro- 
metalurgical processes which have limited 
application. In addition, new technologies such 
as fluidized bed combustion, limestone injection 
and direct furnace smelting are under develop¬ 
ment. The argument against implementing these 
available solutions is that they cost too much. 
The U.S. Congressional Office of Technology 
Assessment estimated the cost at 3.4 million 
dollars per year for ten years to achieve a 
sufficient level of reduction. But the future cost 
of not taking action for surpasses the price of 
present emission controls. Industries such as 
tourism, forestry and fisheries are threatened, 
our buildings and automobiles are deteriorating 
faster each day, health costs could be signifi¬ 
cantly higher, jobs could be lost and resources 
which could never be replenished may possibly 
be lost. When the indirect or less tangible effects 
are considered, any lack of action seems both 
economically and environmentally unsound. 

Unquestionably more study is needed to 
resolve many of the uncertainties regarding 
acid rain, but what we know is clearly sufficient 
to begin to remedy the situation. 


14 




How Does This Affect Us at Camps? 

The acid rain problem is especially important 
to camps because it directly affects many of the 
areas where our camps are located. Education 
of our staff and campers is essential. Any camp 
program could begin with an outline, elaborating 
on much of what has been said in this article 
regarding the causes, effects, sources and 
results of acid rain. This should include the side 
effecs of acid rain and especially how it affects 
us as individuals in our various situations. 

Acid rain affects us directly at camp. Many 
camps depend on the water from their lakes to 
drink, both in camp and on canoe trips. Many of 
the recreational activities surrounding the water 
that we now take for granted may soon be in 
jeopardy. It’s even possible that in heavily affec¬ 
ted areas, the outdoor or ecology programs may 
have to be discontinued as the aquatic habitats 
and those communities depending on water 
disappear. 

Educating the campers of our camps be¬ 
comes an important task, and puts us in an 
influential position, leaving us with a certain 
responsibility. The following section presents 
some activities that can be carried out. They do 
not require a lot of equipment, but will provide an 
opportunity for exploration of this important 
issue. 



Experiment 1: Wind Charts 

Obtain copies of the regular wind charts for your 

vicinity from your local weather station. On a 

large map chart from where the emissions that 

inflict your area originate. This can be a vehicle 

to discussing the causes and origins of acid 

rain. 

Experiment 2: How to test for Acid Rain 
The instructor should place a container outside 
to collect free falling rainfall. The container 
should be placed in a position where there is no 
water contact with an overhanging roof, trees, 
etc. 

EQUIPMENT: 

Four containers: 1. to collect rain water; 2. con¬ 
taining distilled water; 3. containing vinegar; 
4. containing ammonia solution. 
pH paper. 

Study charts: pH scale chart; formation and 
storm trajectories chart; blank chart 
Activity: 1. test the pH of the above solutions 
using the pH paper; 2. set up a pH parameter 
and place the results on it; 3. then test the pH 
of your local rain water and place it on the 
parameter; 4. compare and account for the 
results. 

Question: 1. Does it make a difference if the rain 
is collected at the beginning or the end of the 


storm? During a violent storm or a gentle one? 
2. Does it make a difference if the rain is 
collected in the open or from the roof? 3. Does it 
make a difference where the storm comes from, 
use your local weather charts. 4. Would it make 
a difference if you did this experiment in the 
winter and used snow? 5. Does it make a 
difference if the rain if collected at night or 
during the day? 

Experiment 3: Daily Tests 
Test acidic conditions at your camp as part of 
your daily weather station program. Maintain a 
chart of the following things: 1. the pH of the lake 
water; 2. the pH of any night rainfall; 3. the pH of 
the lake after a rainfall; 4. the pH of the tap 
drinking water. 

Experiment 4: Canoe Trip Testing 
If you are a camp that has a reasonably exten¬ 
sive canoe tripping program (to distinctly differ¬ 
ent water sheds) then test the pH levels of the 
various lakes visited over the course of the 
summer. 1. compare lakes; 2. examine how the 
pH of frequently visited lakes changes during 
the summer. 

In all of these cases try and account for the 
various results and changes. Films are also an 
excellent alternate form of presentation. 


Acid Rain Cycle 


2. TRANSPORTATION! Prevailing wind currents carry ^ 
the enrol salons as for as boJ mi lea (10 JO km.). / 


J. TRANSFORMATIONi Tho oxldea combine with cloud • , 

• moisture^ to form sulfuric and nitric acids. , , 




(if v > . U,T 

* * , r*jL^ / V/ \ '5* WET DEPOSITION < Ocuuro when particles, gases 

* • . * • VfVe* ** *Jr * * ~ f * 0 \* •** * • y and water come into contact, convert to acid and 

I » U ’ • •'i/r * . \ fall *9 precipitation. 

1 * •*•*%} i \ \ v 1 


1. iMMlSSIONSt Sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides, * • » • * 

resulting from the combustion of foaoil fuels. » w 


nonnnon 


oaoi 1 fuels. » * % *••• J • , . k 

•' ; . . .'A \ 

f r • • • . • * **. DRY DEPOSITION! Particles fall on vegetation, 

[ etc., and are converted to acid when thoy w 

I •’",*# contact ground water. . jt Ag 


v* 


V ^ 




- W*Pt ^ 


SENSITIVE ECO - SYSTEM 



Experiment 5: Lake sensitivity to acid rain 
This experiment investigates the effects of acid 
rain on different bedrock materials. Does the 
composition of the lake bed material make any 
difference in the fight against acid rain? The 
factors involved would include chemical com¬ 
position of soil, geological characteristics, 
climate patterns, types of vegetation present 
EQUIPMENT: 

600 mL of acid solution. 

100 g of calcium carbonate (marble). 

3 400 mL glass containers. 

1 eye dropper. 
pH paper. 

100 g of crushed granite or local rock. 

1 stirring rod. 

1 graduated cylinder. 

ACTIVITY: 

Part A: making the "Acid Rain” (acid solution). 

1. add the acid solution drop by drop to 900 mL 
of tap water. As you drop, stir the solution 
constantly and thoroughly until the pH indicates 
a value of 4. Wait one minute and then re¬ 
measure the pH to be sure that it is still pH 4. 
Part B: 

1. place 100 g of marble (or substitute) into one 
glass container. 2. place 100 g of crushed 


granite into another container. 3. into a third 
container put no basin material. 4. add 300 mL 
of the acid solution to each of the containers. 
5. discuss and .make a prediction about what 
you think will happen to the pH in each of the 
glass containers. 6. record the pH of each of the 
containers. 7. let the containers stand overnight 
and record the pH of each on the following day. 
8. repeat for one week. Record the data on a 
chart. 

QUESTIONS: 

1. which of the three types of simulated basins 
was least affected by the "acid rain”? 2. which 
was most affected? 3. determine the amount of 
lime required to restore the most sensitive lake 
to its original pH level. Try the experiment again 
on the restored lake to see if the treatment 
affects the lake in any way. 

Summary 

Our environment is quite unique. Astrono¬ 
mers for one have been searching for life similar 
to ours for centuries; none other exists as far as 
we know. Although further study is still needed 
to fill in the gaps in our knowledge about acid 
rain some concrete conclusions have been 
reached. In the long run only the decreased 
reliance on fossil fuels, or improved control of a 


spectrum of pollutants can reduce the risk that 
our descendants will suffer food shortages, 
impaired health, and a damaged environment. 
As leaders, we have the opportunity and the 
responsibility to take some initiative in educating 
the young people at our camps. We have but 
one environment, together we must fight to 
protect it. The quality of our future environment 
will depend in part on what we do. 

Additional Information Sources 
Environment Canada, 4905 Dufferin St, Toronto, 
Ontario M3H 5T4. 

Provincial Ministries of the Environment. 
Provincial Ministries of Natural Resources. 

The Metropolitan Toronto and Region 
Conservation Authority. 

Environmental Protection Agency 
(United States). 

National Academy of Science (United States). 
Washington, D.C. 

Canadian Environmental Protection Agency, 

25 St. Clair Ave. East, Toronto, Ontario. 

Acid Precipitation Awareness, ISD #197. 

Harriet Stubbs, Project Director. 

1037 Bidwell St. West, St. Paul, Minn. 

55118 USA. 

For further references, please contact the 
author c/o Canadian Camping . 




That s The Way 
The Cooky Crumbles 

Reprinted with permission from FOREVER GREEN 1983 


Almost everyone has to cook for a gang some¬ 
times - maybe 25 or 30 people once or twice a 
year. But imagine cooking for 80 or 90 hungry 
forestry workers three times a day, every day, 
month after month. It’s a job that Larry Des- 
champs, Chief Cook at Camp 12, has been 
managing and even enjoying for over 35 years 
now. 

Deschamps’ day begins at 4 each morning 
with preparations for breakfast. And what a meal 
it is. Each morning, he cooks 18 pounds of 
bacon, 20 dozen eggs, 2 gallons of home fries, 8 
pounds of sausage, 7 dozen pancakes, and 
perhaps even a couple of huge pots of porridge. 

That’s just the beginning, with the help of 
second cook, Conrad Lelievre, Deschamps is 
also responsible for lunch combined with break¬ 
fast for the night shift at noon, dinner at 5:00 for a 
hungry hoard that has put in a full day in the 
woods, and three coffee breaks. 

Deschamps is carrying on a tradition in his 
family. He learned his trade from his father-in- 
law and he, in turn, has just finished introducing 
his son to the ins and outs of lumber camp 
cooking. 

But as anyone who has ever eaten at Camp 12 
will tell you, there’s more to Deschamps’ cook¬ 
ing than quantity. He’s known far and wide for 
the quality of food he produces. Even when he 
goes home on weekends, friends have this 
mysterious way of turning up just at the moment 
when fresh baked bread comes out of the oven. 


After all, when you make 20 loaves of bread 
everyday, you learn to do it well, especially if you 
take pride in your work. 

Actually, Deschamps is a little embarassed by 
the praise his cooking invariably draws. With all 
the modern conveniences at his disposal, it’s a 
whole different world than when he started in 
the camps. Then, there were no automatic 
mixers to help, no refrigerators, no steam tables, 
no electric grills. 

“I remember the first time I made bread. I had 
dough up to my shoulders. Now I use an electric 
mixer.” 

The method of serving has changed dramat¬ 
ically and with it, the atmosphere in the cookery. 
Back in 1948, all the food was brought to the 
tables and the men served themselves in stony 
silence, punctuated only by sharp commands 
“Pass the potatoes" “Pass the butter". 

There was strict protocol governing who sat 
where. The prized middle seats nearest the food 
went to the veterans. And pity the poor new¬ 
comer who mistakenly sat at someone else’s 
place. 

Now, all the food is kept on steam tables and 
cooked on huge grills as the people start 
arriving. People serve themselves now and 
while lingering over the meal is still not charac¬ 
teristic, friendly conversation is exchanged and 
rookies and veterans alike get enough hot food 
to eat. 

And there’s a lot more variety than there used 


to be. Deschamps offers spaghetti, chili, salads, 
in addition to the traditional meat and potatoes 
fare. And there's always enough variety to 
satisfy even the pickiest eater. 

Where does one find recipes for 80 or 90? 
Well, a lot of the unique little twists that make 
Deschamps a great cook come out of his head. 
But for more mundane inspiration he still uses 
the same KVP cookbook he was given when he 
started work. But supplementing that, he draws 
new ideas from magazines. 

“I’ve even got a few from my wife’s Chatelaine 
... mind you I have to multiply the quantities by 
ten or 12." 


But the effort is obviously worth it. Because as 
the regulars approach the Camp 12 cookery, 
there’s a look of anticipation on their faces. They 
sniff the wonderful odour of fresh baking and 
good food and walk a little faster. 

CAMP 12 STEW 


The next time you have 100 dropping in for 
dinner, try Larry’s special recipe. 

25 lb. stewing beef 5 lb. potatoes 

Vi lb. onions cabbage 

salt and pepper 100 oz. tomato juice 
5 lb. carrots water or other liquid 

5 lb. turnips 

Cut up the onions and mix with the beef. Salt 
and pepper to taste. Put in the oven at 425° for 
IV 2 hours to braise, stirring periodically. Mean¬ 
while, cut up the vegetables. (Larry uses what¬ 
ever other vegetables he has available to add 
that extra something.) Add the vegetables, juice 
and enough liquid to cover. Simmer on top of the 
stove for about 2 hours till meat and vegetables 
are tender. 


16 




Sow Seeds - Trust The Promise 

by: Gordon Webber 


Between Seasons in 
the Alberta 
Camping Association 

by: Colin E. Lumby, Ph.D. 

The Spring of 1983 saw renewed efforts at pre¬ 
camp preparation of camp staff on a province¬ 
wide basis. 

The advantages of common training courses 
included an interchange of expertise, ideas, 
good fellowship and an identity with the camp¬ 
ing movement as it was represented by the ACA. 

A total of 33 resource persons voluntarily 
gave their time and effort to 120 camp personnel. 
The workshops were regionalized. The single 
day workshop held in the South for junior staff 
enjoyed limited success in spite of a good 
Program Committee headed up by Karen Hirl. 
The single day format did not allow the program 
nor the group processes to really get off the 
ground. The weekend workshops were held on 
consecutive weekends at the beginning of June. 
Yo-Wo-Ch-As Centre, west of Edmonton was 
the scene of the northern workshop which was 
successfully chaired by Rick Matishak. The 
southern event was effectively run by Mike 
Walters operating on his home turf at Yamnuska 
Centre. The sites were perfect and the programs 
while not identical yielded: positive feelings 
about each other; a sharpening of the leader¬ 
ship role and an increased awareness of the 
camp movement in general. In planning for 1984 
Workshops organizers will have to bear in mind 
the successes of 1983 sessions. The extended 
period (48 hrs) allowed special relationships 
and idea sharing to take place. 

At Yo-Wo-Ch-As the most worthwhile offer¬ 
ings included wide games, cooperative games, 
and the survival or animal game. Drama and 
nature oriented activities ranked high. At Yam¬ 
nuska the continuing thread of “generic skills” 
developed during several sessions by Bruce 
Elkin proved to be the most popular. Van Matre’s 
Acclimatization Program "Touch the Earth” as 
well as another session “Communications” 
were highly rated. The programs were varied 
and the Education Committee of Colin Lumby, 
Rea Bryant and Barbara Forster were encour¬ 
aged to formulate plans for 1984. Two regional 
weekend workshops are planned for the first 
weekend in June. 


ASSISTANTSHIPS IN OUTDOOR 
TEACHER EDUCATION 
Northern Illinois University 

Dr. Clifford E. Knapp reports that Graduate 
Teaching Assistantships are available at the 
Taft Field Campus in Outdoor Teacher Educa¬ 
tion at Northern Illinois University for the 1984- 
85 school year beginning in late August. It is 
expected that more than a dozen assistantships 
will be available. 


During September there was a nine day training 
event sponsored by the National Council of 
Churches. It was called the North American 
Church Camp and was held at Epworth Forest 
United Methodist Camp near North Webster, 
Indiana. The theme was “Sow Seeds, Trust The 
Promise" with the introduction of a new curric¬ 
ulum called "Lifestyles of Faithfulness” The 
purpose of the event was to bring representa¬ 
tives from various church camps in North 
America together, present a three year program 
for church camps, and develop training teams 
for each region. 

There are four regions for Canadian church 
camps. Leadership teams from each region are 
responsible for running at least four training 
events in their region. Those involved in church 
camping will most likely be contacted by the 
leadership teams. If, however, you are not con¬ 
tacted or wish to find out more information as 
soon as possible, here are the liaison persons 
for each region: 


These assistantships involve outdoor teaching 
at the Lorado Taft Field Campus, Oregon, IL. 
Because the teaching is primarily with public 
school students and university juniors and 
seniors, priority is given to those applicants who 
have had a minimum of three years experience 
in the elementary or secondary public schools 
or equivalent teaching experience. Graduate 
teaching assistants can earn a Master’s degree 
in outdoor education while meeting assistant- 


B.C.: 

Mr. John Crosby 
Director, Huston Center 
P.O. Box 140 

Gold Bar, Washington 98251 
MAN., SASK. & ALTA.: 

Ms. Joan Scott 
Box 995 

Indian Head, Saskatchewan SOG 2K0 

ONT. & QUE.: 

Ms. Susan Court 
85 St. Clair Ave. East 
Toronto, Ont. M4T 1M8 

N.B., P.E.I., N.S. & NFLD.: 

Rev. Glenn MacLean 
48 Archibald Avenue 
North Sydney, Nova Scotia B2A 2W8 
or 

Ms. Ima Kean Kidd 
National Council of Churches 
Room 706, 475 Riverside Drive 
New York, New York 10115 


ship responsibilities. The assistantships include 
a stipend of $300 a month and a waiver of tuition 
for three semesters. Room and board is also 
included during the spring and fall semesters 
when groups are in residence. 

Applications and further information may be 
received by writing to Dr. Clifford Knapp, Lorado 
Taft Field Campus, Oregon, IL 61064. The first 
deadline for receipt of applications is February 
1,1984. 


17 


Colin Lumby 





DIRECTOR OF GROUP 
SERVICES REQUIRED 

This is a senior management position 
requiring extensive program and adminis¬ 
trative experience in the operation of res¬ 
idential camps or experiential education 
facilities such as Bolton Camp, Bolton Con¬ 
ference Centre, lllahee Northwoods Camp 
and Senior Citizens Programs. 

Preference will be given to applicants 
holding a Master’s Degree in a related field. 

Salary commensurate with background 
and experience. 

Application letters including resume will 
be received in confidence by mid-January 
to: 

Family Service Association 
of Metro Toronto 
22 Wellesley St. East 
Toronto, Ont. M4Y 1G3 
ATTN: Mrs. J. Rezler 

Personnel Administrator 



■ ■ INTER CITY 

■ ■ PAPERS LIMITED 


PRICE WILSON DIVISION 


Welcomes Delegates 
to the 

Ontario Camping Association 
1984 ANNUAL CONFERENCE 

For a complete line of 
Food Service Disposables 
CALL 

The Professionals at 

(416) 678-2210 

or 

Visit Our Booth 
at the 

OCA CONFERENCE 
EXHIBIT HALL 


Dave Adair 



ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION: 
Notan Endangered Species! 

by: Rick Ireland I I 


Rick Ireland is the Manager of the Edmonton 
YWCA Outdoor Recreation Department which 
operates YoWoChAs, a year-round environmen¬ 
tal and outdoor education centre at Fallis, 
Alberta. 

“It has been just a few years now since the 
words "ecology" and “pollution” have become a 
part of our everyday language. Until recently, 
people just could not see the connection be¬ 
tween the pollution of the environment, the loss 
of eagles and bison and certain wild plants, and 
their own survival. Now, hopefully, they are 
beginning to see that man, the animal, is part of 
the total complex life system on earth; that man, 
too, is one of the endangered species.” 

That statement is from the Alberta Education 
“Environmental Education Manual for Grades 
1-12". The Manual is the result of a two year look 
at the core curriculum of the province’s educa¬ 
tion system and the development of an environ¬ 
mental focus that is compatible with and sup¬ 
portive of the core curriculum. Alberta Education 
is recognizing the need to make students aware 
of their natural environment by teaching a 
respect and an understanding of it. Man (and 
student) has a place in the natural order of 
things and must obey the same laws of nature 
as all other living creatures. Promoting harmony 


through understanding appears to be an integral 
part of the Manual. 

Manuals that provide “how-to” information or 
mini-lesson plans are available to one and all. 
Seldom are they geared to the real, immediate 
needs of the teacher, nor do they present a 
logical, sequential theme for the child’s educa¬ 
tional career. In short, the teacher likely collects 
numerous pieces of information from unrelated 
(and usually foreign) sources and, with some 
hard work, can put a fine environmental program 
together which has deep roots in science and 
social studies. Unfortunately, there is little con¬ 
tinuity from grade to grade and many of the 
remaining subject areas are omitted. 

The Alberta Manual has responded to such 
educational shortcomings with what one might 
call a "package". The core curriculum of each 
grade has been broken down into a number of 
teaching objectives including “knowledge and 
understandings”, “skills, abilities and proces¬ 
ses” and “values and attitudes”. In addition, 
student learning objectives (i.e., what the student 
should be able to do by the end of the section) 
are considered in the areas of physical educa¬ 
tion, language arts, mathematics, science, fine 
arts, health, and social studies. 


To reduce the inevitable confusion that will 
result, all of this is put into a neat and concise 
chart that begins to make sense after a short 
period of time! 

The impact this can have on the sponge-like 
brain of a student is that there now exists a 
logical, linked progression of environmental 
education concepts which are tied directly to 
the child’s grade core curriculum from grade 1 
to grade 12. Ideally, the student will be able to 
receive 12 years of graduated environmental 
education knowledge. 

The impact of such a project on environmen¬ 
tal centres such as YoWoChAs Centre in Alberta 
is that we now have a much clearer view of what 
teachers are looking for when they ask us to 
assist in developing a program for their use at 
our Centre. From a marketing standpoint, we are 
in a position to better understand the teacher’s 
needs and can respond accordingly. 

Although the Manual is in an operational 
review phase, and the overall program is 
optional at most schools, its official or even 
unofficial acceptance will greatly enhance the 
level of environmental education ... at least 
within Alberta. 

Subscriptions 

Special 

See Back Page 


Volunteer Leaders - Continued from Page 7 

Ont: Liz Greenway, Fred Okada, Dorothy Walter 
Man: Bryan Hill, Miriam Kuropatwa 
Sask: Davd Godwin 

Alta: Jan James. Michael Kenny, Wayne Perkins 
BC: Dave Adair 

Arnie Cohen commented at the end of the 
workshop that he felt as though he had “come 
home" being with camping people again. Even 
though it is a few years since Cohen has been 
actively involved with camps, he still had very 
insightful comments to relate the management 
information to our situations in the camping 
association and our camps. Thanks to the 
leadership of two very special people, we be¬ 
lieve that this event will assist the national 
executive, provincial presidents and vice presi¬ 
dents to improve their leadership performance 
capabilities in the camping associations across 
the country. 



19 



oz 


oo$s\i uey\j doyio 
douejnsui din ‘dUfzeBe^ sjdBeuew ujojj 

1U9SU00 jnoA 

*noq*jM jojjapj |aa* noA a> |buj ubo ApoqoN 01 
uisBjsnqjua *so| ssq 

oqM uosjad aq* si Ao*dnj>|UBq *sjom aqx *6 
A* 0 ixub jo* Aajd Asea 9 jb a*j| u; asodjnd 
aiiqMqjJOM e *as *ou aABq oqM 8|doad ‘8 
*|nos aq* qono* 
jaAau *nq 'ui>js aq* *sa* sa^uu/w pujuj 
*o a)B*s b *nq 'a*i| *o auij* e pu sj q*nox i 
'*! jo* aBusqoxa ||J/v\ noA *Bq* am p *unoiuB 
jbm* Sj 6ujq*aujos p *soo a*BUJ|j|n aqx g 
•0OUB!jaj-*|as ou 9ABq 
oqM asoq* p e6npj aq* si BujujBidiuoQ g 
noA juauijo* |j|M pqi op 
*,uop noA *BqM s.*| auop OA.noA 6ujq*AuB 
jo* *aj6aj aouauadxa wopias |jjm no^ p 
*|je* o* uO!*B6;iqo ub 

uo *uaiuABd UMOp b sj *q6noq* 8Aj*B6au v *0 
a*!l b a>|Bui o* jnq ‘6 u!aij 
b a>jBUJ o* pu sj aouajsjxa p asodjnd aqi z 

•apn*j*|B 

suj8ao 6 *Bq* *apn*j*dB pu ‘apn*j**B si *| 

S)U 0 tupuBiuiuoQ epnjiuv 

SV3QI 


io|duja,| ap luaiuaddopAap np uoipajjQ bj ap pooi nsajnq ajpA japB*uoo zanjnaA ‘ajnBunwiuoo 
ajpA suBp auiujBjBojd ao ap ajjjjqjuodsjp B| ap sodojd b siuatuau6jasuaj sap jjua*qo zajjsap snoA js 

apBunujujoo B| b sanbiuiouoo? no spjnqno ‘xnBjoos so6biubab sap pajjoddv (* 7 ) 
a*ino!**!p subs ajpuajdajjua pojjnod xnBOoj s*uBipn*a saj anb sjojdwa sap passjujnoj (g) 
'S|auoj*!pBj*-uou sjaipuu sap *uaojaxa jnb sauirna* sap no ‘sanbisAqd 
sadBoipusq sap ‘sauoiqoops sap *uauia*njoaj ap suB|d sjnai subp ajnpuj.p *ua*uasuoQ ( Z) 

IJBABJ* ap sapnqqBq 

sauuoq ap *a ‘sa*i|jqBsuodsaj sap suas d| ‘aAjpjnui.p *jjdsa 4 | jjj^nboa b s*uBjpn*a sa| *uapjv (0 
:s|anbsa| s*afojd xns aauuop *u8tua|Bj?u$6 *sa ?*|Jojjd b-| ijbabj* np aqojBiu nB jadiojqBd xnajuj b 
iuojapjB saj jnb a*a 4 p sjoidwa sap spsjpnp xnB jjujno* b asjA (bpbubq uoj*bj6jujuj| *0 joidiug ‘loidiua.i 
ap luauiaddopA^p np uojpajja bj JBd ^jjsjujwpb) s*uBjpn*a jnod iO|dwa 4 p awtuBjBojd ^pbubq 9*3 

s*uejpn*ajnod jopuiap auiuieiSaid - epeue^ 3*3 

aoj**o pjaj* qouBjg juauidopAao juawAoidiug pool jnoA pb*uoo assaid 
‘Ajiunuiwoo jnoA ui 8iuujBj6ojd sjq* *0 A*i|iqB|jBAB aq* 6uipjB6aj uoijBLUJopj uiB*qo o* qsiM noA *| 

Ajjuniuujoo aq* o* *j*auaq ojuuouooa jo |Bjn*|no ‘jbioos apiAOJd (*) 
uojiBjndod *uapn*s ibooi pai*!iuapi aq* Aq uajjBjjapun aq A|jpBaj ubo qoiq/w *uawAo|dwa apjAOJd ( 0 ) 

suojjBdnooo |Buoi*!pBJ*-uou 

ui uauiOM jo 'pajqBSjp A||BOjsAqd aq* ‘sbajibn o* uoj*B|0j ui UBjd 6ujjjq aAj*isod b asodojd iz) 
s*uapn*s *0 s*jqBq >jjom pooB pus A*j|jqjsuodsaj ‘aAjjBijjuj *0 *uauido| 0 A 0 p aq* o* a*nqjj*uoo (*.) 

:qojqM spafojd 

o* uaAjB uaaq A||Bjaua6 SBq A*jJoiJd uojjBdpuJBd *8 >jjbui jnoqBj ajn*n* jjaq* 0 * *!*auaq *0 aq him *Bq* 
sqof jaiuiuns qjjM s*uapn*s apjAOJd o* sj (bpbubq uoj*bj6iluuj| ^ juaiuAoidujg ‘qouBjg *uaiudoieAaa 
*uaiuAo|diU 3 aq* Aq paja*s juiiupB) uiBj6ojd luaujAojdujg *uapn*s bpbubq jamiuns aq* *0 aAipalqo aqj. 

uibjEojj *uauiAo|dui3 *uapn*s epeue^ Jamiuns 


LZ0 IAISIA1 **uo ‘oiuojox 
Z 3*!ns ‘ Pd enuaAv 9081 
ajo*s>j008 VOO 
uioj* uoj*BOi|qnd VDO V 


,iQN3lhU ONIdWVO VtdOJ Idle U3dDS V„ 


BujijBLU joj 091$ ppe 

S 6 ‘Z$ 


sAbmib pue Aapo* ajejjdojdde 
ejB qoji|M S 0 SJ 9 A pue sojjojs duueo *0 Aoe 60 | 
b sn ** 0 | oqM J 00 uojd 6 ujdujBQ ubjpbubq b 
'jb 6 p 3 *s Ajb|/m *0 Ajo*s aq* s|| 0 } os|B >*ooq sjqx 
jb 6 p 3 *s Ajbjai Aq sasjaA papajas 
q*jM pa*uauj 6 nB sauuj* asaqj jo* SBapi sapnjoui 

.UHdIAIVO V 01 A 0 V 031 ,, 


** »v°' 


® a lOj 

i 

\ &£&? 

\ 

1 


***&>?£* 


s 01 ^ 
*»*?&*£■ 

\ ****** ^ 




auiiL Auy 'auiji uiqeo y i|3»^ Sujujoyy y aiyduieo y |adeio 
* •' IHDnOHX V Q33N SAVMTV SM30V31 dWVO 



SUBSCRIPTION RfiTE SPECIffL!!! 

As we endeavour to continually upgrade our magazine content, we are finding more and more material suitable to Camp Staff. Many counsellors 
are requesting reprints of articles and/or entire issues. We would like to encourage Camp Directors to enter full subscriptions to Canadian Camping 
for their Staff and Senior Staff who are not already members of your provincial camping association. We feel it will be an investment well worth it 
and to this end we would like to offer the following special rate: 

After the first two full-rate subscriptions at $6.00/year, we will offer any additional one-year subscriptions at only $4.00/year. Please act now and 
save! Subscribe your staff to Canadian Camping and receive four issues a year: interviews, editorials, advice column, group dynamics exercises, 
articles and much, much more.. .your staff will thank you, your campers will benefit! 


PLEASE PRINT CLEARLY 

Name_ 

Address_ 

City_Province_Postal Code. 


PLEASE PRINT CLEARLY 

Name_ 

Address_ 

City_Province_Postal Code_ 


PLEASE PRINT CLEARLY 

Name_ 

Address_ 

City_Province_Postal Code_ 

PLEASE PRINT CLEARLY 

Name_ 

Address_ 

City_Province_Postal Code_ 


PLEASE PRINT CLEARLY 

Name_ 

Address_ 

City_Province_Postal Code_ 

PLEASE PRINT CLEARLY 

Name_ 

Address_ 

City_Province_Postal Code_ 


PLEASE PRINT CLEARLY 

Name_ 

Address_ 

City_Province_Postal Code_ 

PLEASE PRINT CLEARLY 

Name_ 

Address_ 

City_Province_Postal Code_ 

PLEASE PRINT CLEARLY 

Name _ 

Address_ 

City_Province_Postal Code_ 


PLEASE PRINT CLEARLY 

Name_ 

Address_ 

City_Province_Postal Code_ 

PLEASE PRINT CLEARLY 

Name_ 

Address_ 

City_Province_Postal Code_ 

PLEASE PRINT CLEARLY 

Name___ 

Address _ 

City_Province_Postal Code_ 


PLEASE PRINT CLEARLY 

Name _ 

Address___ 

City-Province_Postal Code_ 


PLEASE PRINT CLEARLY 

Name_ 

Address_ 

City_Province_Postal Code_ 


Enclosed, please find a cheque for $. 
Canadian Camping Association. 


.00 to cover 


annual subscriptions to Canadian Camping. Make cheques payable to the 







BOOKSTORE 
ORDER FORM 


Canadian Camping Association 
1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 
416-781-4717 

PLEASE PRINT 

Name:_Telephone: ( )_ Date: 

Address:_____ 

City Town:_Province:_ Postal Code: 


NO. 


TITLE 


PRICE TOTAL OFFICE USE 


SHIPPING RATES: 

$20.00 or less, order must be Prepaid with $2.00 included for 
shipping. 

$20.01 - S50.00, order may be billed. Shipping rate will be $3.00. 
More than $50.00 - shipping rate will be determined per order. 

TERMS: Payment due within 30 days of invoice date. Interest will be 
charged on overdue accounts. All prices are subject to change 
without notice. 


Sub-Total_ 

Shipping_ 

TOTAI_Prepaid 

Signature_ 

Please invoice_ 

Quote Purchase Order No- 


OFFICE: Date Received_Filled_by-Shipped_by. 


Canadian Camping Association 
1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 
416-781-4717 

PLEASE PRINT 

Name:-Telephone: ( 

Address: __ 

City Town:_ __Province: 


BOOKSTORE 
ORDER FORM 


) 


Date: 


Postal Code: 


NO. 


TITLE 


PRICE TOTAL OFFICE USE 


SHIPPING RATES: 

$20.00 or less, order must be Prepaid with $2.00 included for 
shipping. 

$20.01 - $50.00, order may be billed. Shipping rate will be $3.00. 
More than $50.00 - shipping rate will be determined per order. 

TERMS: Payment due within 30 days of invoice date. Interest will be 
charged on overdue accounts. All prices are subject to change 
without notice. 


Sub-Total_ 

Shipping_ 

TOTAI-- Prepaid 

Signature_ 

Please invoice___ 

Quote Purchase Order No._ 


Filled_by. 


by. 


OFFICE: Date Received 


Shipped 





Dispose of camp food 
|i^ service problems with 

royal Chinet 

disposable plates and bowls 

Strong, attractive Royal CHINET food service products help you ... 

• DISPOSE OF DISHWASHING COSTS 

Cut the expense of installing, maintaining and manning equipment 
that is used only a few months of the year. 

• DISPOSE OF BREAKAGE 

Save yourself the trouble and expense of buying matching replace¬ 
ments for pieces that crack, chip and shatter. 

• DISPOSE OF FOOD WASTE 

You get exact portion control with Royal CHINET's wide range of 
sizes in regular and compartmented designs. 

• DISPOSE OF GERM COLLECTORS 

Royal CHINET products are sterilized when manufactured and 
packaged. And there's never a germ-collecting chip, crack or 
poorly washed dish. 

• DISPOSE OF IRRITATING NOISE 

Disposable service is silent service. Meals are relaxed without the 
clatter and crash of china or metal. 

ENVIRONMENTAL ADVANTAGES, TOO 

All good campers want to protect the environment. Royal CHINET prod¬ 
ucts are manufactured from a renewable resource. What’s more, they’re 
biodegradable . . . molded of natural wood fibres that burn readily with 
little smoke. Even if discarded out-of-doors, Royal CHINET quickly de¬ 
composes in the earth. 

Get the full particulars now. Mail this coupon today. 



CKF Inc 

HANTSPORT, NOVA SCOTIA, BOP IPO 

Please provide me with details of the variety and costs of Royal 
CHINET food service products. 


NAME 

COMPANY or CAMP 
ADDRESS 

rihu CITY 


yl 



PROV. 









Canadian camping association 
association dcs camps du Canada 


SUITE 2. 1806 AVENUE ROAD 
TORONTO ONTARIO M5M 321 

VOL. 35, NO. 4 
WINTER 1984 
ISSN 008-3119 


1765 

CAMP RICHILDACA 

MR. & MRS. ft. J. BABCOCK 

KETTLEBY ON 

LOG 1J0 


1”. 

n 

o 

c 



> 

in 

>• 

Q 

•o 

> 

m 

o 

IT} 

N 

70 

c 

r- 

—4 

73 

m 



en 


7* 

SL 



cn 




