Canadian 

comping 



ms 




OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OFFICIELLE 

THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION / L'ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU CANADA 


SUITE 203. 102 EGLINTON AVENUE EAST 
TELEPHONE (416) 488-7345 


TORONTO. ONTARIO M4P 1E1 


Vol. 31 No. 1 
February 1979 








Canadian 

Camping Association 


WHAT IS IT? 

The Canadian Camping Association is a 
National Federation of volunteer camping 
leaders uniting all the Provincial Camp¬ 
ing Associations into a general body in¬ 
volved in the growth and development of 
camping without the sacrifice of each 
Province’s autonomy. The C.C.A. sets 
directions without being directive. It 
began in 1936 and became incorporated in 
1949. At present, there are member asso¬ 
ciations in all provinces except Prince 
Edward Island. 

WHY IS IT? 

The Canadian Camping Association's 
purposes are . 

a) To further the interests and welfare 
of children, youths and adults 
through camping as an educative, 
character building and constructive 
recreational experience. 

b) To act as a liaison between provin¬ 
cial and territorial camping associ¬ 
ations in Canada and to act on their 
behalf with camping associations in 
other countries. 

c) To speak for organized camping on a 
national level and to represent their 
collective interests with the Govern¬ 
ment of Canada. 

d) To encourage the development of high 
standards in camping and the imple¬ 
mentation and maintenance thereof 
through the provincial and terri¬ 
torial camping associations. 

e) To study all aspects of camping and 
to interpret and disseminate know¬ 
ledge concerning development and reg¬ 
ulations pertaining thereto. 

f) To further training programmes and 
conferences on a national level for 
camp leaders and other personnel ac¬ 
tive in the operation of camps. 


g) To read, to print and publish such 
books, periodicals and leaflets as 
the Association may think desirable 
for the filling of its objectives. 

h) To further research into camping 
and to publish the results of such 
research. 

i) To encourage the production and use 
of audio visual material in the pro¬ 
motion of camping. 

MEMBERSHIP 

Any camp or individual members in 
good standing of a federated Provincial 
and/or Territorial Camping Association 
are automatically members of the Canadian 
Camping Association. Any camp or indi¬ 
vidual involved with organized camping 
in an area of Canada where there is no 
Provincial or Territorial Camping Asso¬ 
ciation may apply directly to the Cana¬ 
dian Camping Association for approval 
of membership by the C.C.A. Board of 
Directors. 

By becoming a Member of C.C.A., one 
is associated with an organization which 
is recognized internationally for its 
high standards in organized camping. 
Membership in C.C.A. implies a willing¬ 
ness on the part of its members to con¬ 
stantly improve the quality of organ¬ 
ized camping and camp leadership in 
Canada by upgrading camping standards 
and practices. The Canadian Camping 
Association is the voice of camping in 
matters of mutual concern with the 
Federal Government and with governments 
and organizations around the world 

(cont. on page 12) 

FRONT COVER 

The waterfront, Camp Tawingo 
Huntsville, Ontario 


2 








The COUNSELLOR'S Pag e 

Applying fora job 

This is the time of year when many of you will 
be deciding about your plans for the coming sum¬ 
mer. For some it will be merely a matter of de¬ 
termining whether or not you are going to return 
to camp, for some it will be a matter of choosing 
a camp where you feel you can contribute some of 
your skills which you have gained during the past 
few years. Others may be wanting to widen their 
camping experience and try another camp. 

Choosing a camp... Look around. Find out about a 
variety of camps. Select two or threee whose pro¬ 
gram and philosophy are compatible with your own. 
You can get much of this information from your 
PROVINCIAL CAMPING ASSOCIATION. Ask around a- 
mong your friends and find our about as many camps 
as you can. 

When you are applying for a job, consider these points when making out your letter 
of application. All may not be applicable to your situation, but others could be 
very useful. 

1. For each camp send a SEPARATE application (your specific qualifications — 
tests passed etc. - may be on a mimeographed sheet). Camp directors are not 
often interested in reading a form letter with their name typed in the ap¬ 
propriate place. If you have chosen their camp they want to know why it is 
"special" to you. 

2. Tell how you heard about the camp. 

3. Either type or write very clearly. 

4. Include the following information in one section of the letter. NAME, AGE, 
BIRTHDATE, HOME ADDRESS, (SCHOOL ADDRESS IF LIVING AWAY FROM HOME), PHONE 
NUMEER(S), GRADE, PROGRAM (academic, technical, etc.) 

5- Indicate your previous camping experience and/or background information which 

(cont. on page 9 ) 



3 







Church camps— 

Why do children attend? 


Have church camps changed over 
the years? Were the goals and 
objectives of church camping in the 
late 1800s and early 1900s significantly 
different from what one would 
discover in camp staff manuals or 
publicity materials today? Do children 
attend church camps for many of the 
same reasons they attended years 
ago? 

If responses gathered from a sample 
of campers attending the Brainerd 
Presbyterian Center (a church camp 
located near Stroudsburg. PA) are 
typical of most throughout the country, 
the answers to the previous questions 
do not seem to indicate significant 
change. Most attended camp to 
participate in physical activities and 
make new friends. These reasons for 
attending church camp, or other types 
of camps for that matter, are not 
extremely different from those one 
would have heard from campers 
attending the first church camps and 
schools in the late 1800s. Church 
camping is probably not as high on the 
priority lists of many young men and 
women as it was when the Rev. George 
Hickley unfolded the church camping 
movement in America, but many 
children still attend. 

As one might assume, the initial 
thrust which sparked the camping 
movement in the United States was the 
desire to have youngsters learn to live 
in harmony with nature. However, 
youngsters during the early camping 
movement meant only boys. Camping 
had not yet been accepted as an 
activity for girls. This attitude, 
however, changed near the turn of the 
century primarily through the efforts 
of Luther Gulick and Laura Mattoon. 
Although the church camping 
movement supported the concept of 
living in harmony with nature, 
ministers were also concerned with 
having an opportunity to get to know 
the younger members of their 
congregations better and with taking 
the time to be a good influence on 
them for character development. 

Have times really changed? Sure we 
have our heated buildings, expensive 
swimming pools, paid staff members, 
and fancy publicity materials, but have 
all of these changed our reasons for 
providing camping programs within 
our churches or changed reasons why 
kids attend our church camps? I doubt 
it! 


During the summer of 1977,1 was 
employed as the camp director at the 
Brainerd Presbyterian Center. Prior to 
arriving at camp, campers were sent a 
questionnaire to collect information 
about them and their reasons for 
wanting to attend camp. The results of 
that survey indicated that most 
campers were coming to go swimming, 
hiking, boating and to make new 
friends, respectively. Other 
experiences desired by campers, in 
order of their priorities, were arts and 
crafts, music, social games, and Bible 
study. 

Although there were no rank-order 
activity differences in the swimming, 
hiking, and boating preferences of 
males and females, there were 
differences between the sexes in other 
categories. Females expressed a much 
greater desire for music and arts and 
crafts activities than did males. They 
also gave greater priority to making 
new friends, to learning about the 
Bible, and to participating in social 
games than did their male 
counterparts. 

After observing and talking with 
campers and staff members 
throughout the summer, I am certain 
that the results of this survey are quite 
accurate, with two exceptions. First, 
hiking was not as high a priority as 
initially indicated by both sexes; and 
secondly, males were more interested 
in making new friends than the 
pre-camp survey indicated. 

In general terms, these results 
support the concept of making the 
church camp experience physically, 
socially, and mentally rewarding. At 
least it was for the director. 

—John H.Jones 


John H. Jones is chairman of the 
Department of Recreation and Leisure 
Services Management . East 
Stroudsburg State College . East 
Stroudsburg . PA. He is currently 
doing a nationwide study on accredited 
church camps and their problems. 

Reprinted from Camping 
Magazine, the American 
Camping Association 1 s 
official publication, 
September/October 1978 






4 



Novq Scotia Reports 

ON A SUMMER PROJECT 
Sponsored by a grant from the 

by Paul Potter Department of Secretary of State 

Project Coordinator 


On May 8, 1978, the Nova Scotia Camping Association's summer project 
began with one staff member and shortly thereafter, two additional staff 
members were hired. Initially, the staff worked on articulating the objectives 
of the project as were laid down by the Nova Scotia Camping Association Execu¬ 
tive. When this process was complete, final plans were worked out with the 
Executive of the N.S.C.A. 

first step was to make contact with the camps, identify the proper 
contact people for each camp and set up possible visitation dates. The 
N.S.C.A. standards for resident youth camps were developed into a check list 
format to make them more useful during the actual visitations. At the end of 
May, a N.S.C.A. Newsletter was published with information on preparing for 
camp and on the summer project. 

Attention was then directed to implementing some new training events 
and to assist with other annual training events. The first of these took 
place during the long weekend in May. Fifty Camp Counsellors and Directors 
gathered for the N.S.C.A.'s annual training program. John Latimer, Past 
President of the Canadian Camping Association and Jane McCutcheon, C.C.A. 
Secretary were the keynote speakers. 

The first Provincial Woodsmanship School was held in June. Thirty 
young people participated and the course, based on the National Woodsmanship 
program, ran for two weekends and was aimed at training camp leaders in 
hiking, back packing and canoe tripping. The content of the course covered 
the skills and techniques required to lead a successful, safe trip out of 
doors. This program was so successful that we would like to run a full na¬ 
tional-type course in this province in 1979• 

As well as the two N.S.C.A. 
training events mentioned above, 
the project staff were involved in 
leading sessions for training pro¬ 
grams throughout June for three 
Department of Social Service Camps 
and Camp Brunswick and Arthur Kidston 
Memorial Camp. All these events 
were very successful and there is 
a growing interest to see more such 
events run in other camps in the 
province next spring. 

(cont. on page 6 ) 



5 



Nova Scotia Reports 


cont. from page 5 ) 


May and June also saw the develop¬ 
ment of a song book. Although some 
camps had been working on their own 
song book, none was large enough to hold 
all of the songs from every camp. There¬ 
fore a provincial song book with more 
than five hundred songs was published. 
Since its publication, the book has been 
in constant demand and may soon require 
a second printing. 

The cost is $ 3.00 and it is available 
from: 

Nova Scotia Camping Association 
Box 696 

Halifax, Nova Scotia B3J 3H5 

The first camp visitation took place on July 6th, and ty the end of the 
summer forty-six camps had been visited, not counting the Girl Guide and Boy 
Scout Camps that were also visited. 

In most cases, the visitors were met with hestitation, mainly because 
they were felt to be inspectors. After sometime talking and sharing ideas, the, 
the camps showed great interest in the project and the N.S.C.A. They left most 
camps wishing that more time was available and with an open invitation to return. 

The summer project was successful for many reasons. Over and above the ob¬ 
vious success of obta inin g accurate information for the directory and meeting indi¬ 
vidual, camp staff, the development of new contacts will probably be of the most 
benefit to the Association. The visitations made the Association very visable and 
for the most part, Camp Directors were glad there was an Association concerned 
about their camp that could provide resources and help when needed. 

Many people this summer became educated about the Association and the bene¬ 
fits it makes available, as welLas, becoming more aware of good camping standards 
and the need for such standards. This was obvious in the many new members that 
joined the N.S.C.A. this summer. The visitations also offered a great vehicle 
for sharing ideas and telling one camp about another. 



- COMING EVENTS 


FEBRUARY_ 1979 _ FEVRIER APRIL _ 1979 _AVRIL 

6-8 ACQ Formateur multiplieateur 11-C 

6-8 0CA-C0E0 Conference/Workshop 


19-24 ACA-CCA Convention - Minneapolis 
24-25 CCA Board Meeting - Winnipeg 

MARCH MARS 

1-3 OCA Conference - Toronto 

1-9 ACQ-QCA Semaine des camps 

7-12 CCA Winter Woodsmanship School 

9-10 SCA Workshop 

9-11 ACQ Formateur multiplieateur 11-B 

22 ACQ-QCA Executif provincial 


Boyne River Nat. Sci. School 
10 OCA Annual Meeting - OSCC - Torontc 

17 CCA Executive Meeting - Toronto 

27 ACQ-QCA Executif provincial 

27-29 ACQ Seminaire des directeurs - 
theme: La communication 
27-29 SCA Spring Conference and Annual 
Meeting — Echo Valley Centre 


6 















Book Review 



THE 
NEW 
y GAMES 
| BOOK-n 


The New Games Book , edited by Andrew 
Fluegelman, Dolphin Books, Doubleday 
and Co., Inc., Garden City, N.Y., 
pp. 193, 16.25 (Cdn.), 1976. 

"Play hard, play fair, nobody hurt" 
is the notto of New Games . Published 
by the New Gaines Foundation, this is 
a collection of games old and new and 
borrowed from traditional favorites 
with a different approach. Delightful¬ 
ly written and illustrated with char¬ 
ming pictures, New Games explains the 
games in specific and easily-followed 
instructions. 


Available from: 


>.25 


C.C.A. Publications 
102 Eglinton Ave., E. 
Suite 203 

Toronto, Ont. M4P 1E1 


MAY 

1979 

MAI 

9 

10 

12 

24-26 

25-26 

ACQ Recontre - Region de Quebec 
ACQ-QCA Assemblee Annuelle 

OCA Counsellor Conference - Cen¬ 
tennial College - Toronto 

CCA Annual Meeting - Nova Scotia 
ACQ Session destinee aux moniteurs 

JUNE 

1979 

JUIN 

10-16 

SCA Woodsmanship School 
OCA Woodsmanship School 



November 2 & 3 CCA Board Meeting and SCA 
Fall Conference - Saskatoon 


Fred Okada, Chairman of the Canadian 
Camping Association's Publications 
Committee, says about The New Games Book 

"During a recent directors' weekend I 
was first introduced to something called 
"New Games". We all spent the next hour 
participating in a number of different 
activities. Echoing sounds of fun and 
excitement were loudly heard during that 
hour and the end came too soon for every¬ 
one. We were told that more of the same 
could be found in The New Games Book. 

Stewart Brand, George Leonard and Pat 
Farrington each contributed to the be¬ 
ginnings of the "new games" concept. 
Stewart conceived the aspect of "soft 
war" which is the "idea that people 
could design their conflict forms to 
suit everyone's need." Leonard was 
interested in the concept of "creative 
play" represented in the "experience 
of a player placed in an open environ¬ 
ment and encouraged to use his imagina¬ 
tion to devise new play forms." Pat 
Farrington added her own vision of "soft 
touch" within a game that would develop 
trust and cooperation. From these roots 
developed the concept of "New Games" 
which really represents "an attitude 
that encourages people to play together." 

It's not a book filled with theories 
and rules, but rather it contains some 
sixty tried games that are well illus¬ 
trated. There is a section on how one 
might organize a new games night by 
suggesting a sequence of games. Stimu¬ 
lated by the ideas that are scattered 
throughout the book, you will begin to 
generate your own "new games". 

I'm appreciative of my exposure to 
the concept of "new games" and the book 
which is a valuable addition to my 
resource library." 


WAKE-UP! SHAPE UP! 
WALK! 


P3anc(f*atwnm 
Walk a Mock.T'xlay. 


7 




A CAMPER'S PLEA 


Please, Hear What I'm Not Saying 


Don't be fooled by the face I wear 
for I wear a thousand masks. 

And none of them are me. 

Don't be fooled, for God's sake 
don't be fooled. 

I give you the impression that I'm secure. 
That confidence is my name and 
coolness my game. 

And that I need no one. But don't 
believe me. 


That is, if it's followed by acceptance, 
if it's followed by love. 

It's the only thing that can liberate me 
From my own self-built prison walls. 

I'm afraid that deep-down I'm nothing, 
and that I'm just no good, 

And that you will see this and 
reject me. 

And so begins the parade of masks. 

I idly chatter to you. 

I tell you everything that's really 
nothing 

And nothing of what's everything, 
of what's crying within me. 


Please listen carefully and try to hear 
what I'm not saying 


I'd really like to be genuine and 
spontaneous, and me. 

But you've got to help me. You've 
got to hold out your hand. 

Each time you're kind, 
and gentle, and encouraging. 

Each time you try to understand 
because you really care. 

My heart begins to grow wings, 
very feeble wings, but wings. 

With your sensitivity and sympathy, 
and your power of understanding. 

You alone can release me from my 
shadow world of uncertainty — 

From my lonely prison. 

It will not be easy for you, 

The nearer you approach me 

The more blindly I may strike back. 

But I am told that love is 
stronger than strong walls 
And in this lies my hope, my only 
hope. 

Please try to beat down these walls 
with firm hands 

But gentle hands — for a child is 
very sensitive. 

Who am I you may wonder? 

I am someone you know very well, 
For I am every man you meet, 
and I am every woman you meet. 

And I am you, also. 


Beneath dwells the real me in confusion, 
in fear, in aloneness. 

That's why I create a mask to hide behind, 

To shield me from the glance that knows, 

But such a glance is precisely my salvation. 



8 









Applying fora j ob 


(cont. from page 3 ) 


you consider makes you qualify for a position. 

6. Achievements - if not otherwise noted, list tests and awards you have received 
(Red Cross, Bronze, "Y" etc.) 

7 . Special Skills: if you have some particular skills (eg. playing the guitar) 
or have a hobby such as photography which might help you contribute to the 
camp in a special way, include the information. 

8. A recent photograph of yourself makes the contact more personal and easier 
for a prospective employer to relate to your application. 

9. References are important. Include three or four references with their ad¬ 
dresses and phone numbers. These references should be people who can ob¬ 
jectively comment on your character and your capabilities. 


If this is your first contact with the director in a business capacity remenber — 
first impressions are important. As campers there are many more privileges than 

responsibilities. As a member of staff, camp directors want to know you will 
act responsibly. A well-organized, cleat, comphrehensive letter can be a de¬ 
finite help in starting you on your way to your goal. Your letter will be one 
of many (often VERY many). Be sure it represents the best you can do. 



ONTARIO CAMPING ASSOCIATION 



ANNUAL CONFERENCE 


March 1-3, 1979 
Royal York Hotel 
Toronto 


This year we are saluting the 
International Year of the Child 

Registration Information from: 

O.C.A., 102 Eglinton Ave., E. 
Suite 203 

Toronto, Ont. M4P 1E1 
(416) 486-8630 


NOTE 

Beginning with this issue, we hope 
to have at least one page devoted 
to the particular interests of Camp 
Counsellors. If you have an arti¬ 
cle you-would like to have consi¬ 
dered for publication or want to 
ask a specific question or have a 
comment to send along in the form 
of a "Letter to the Editor" let us 
hear from you. 

Address letters and articles to the 

Editor, Canadian Camping 
102 Eglinton Ave., E. 

Suite 203 

Toronto, Ontario M4P IE1 



9 




pour presenter le ... 



PLAY LEADERSHIP 
TRAINING KIT 

A new practical resource kit for trainers of 
play leaders . . . 

Developed by the National Task Force on 
Children's Play, Canadian Council on 
Children and Youth 

Order Form for 

Play Leadership Training Kit 

Return to: Canadian Council on Children 
and Youth 
323 Chapel Street 
Ottawa, Ontario 
KIN 7Z2 

There are a number of excellent manuals 
available to help play leaders with the 
practicalities of a play program (crafts, 
games, first aid) but . . . 

A recent national survey conducted by the 
National Task Force revealed a lack of avail¬ 
able material on the principles of play 
leadership and child development in the 
play setting. 

This kit is intended to meet that need. 

It deals with general play leadership roles 
common to all play settings. It can and 
should be supplemented with material 
specific to the nature of the particular 
program and/or agency. 


DOSSIER POUR LA 
FORMATION DU MONITEUR 

Une nouvelle source d'informations pratiques 
pour instructeurs et moniteurs ... 

Prepare par le Comite national d'etude sur les 

jeuxderenfant,Conseilcanadiendel'enfanceet 

de la jeunesse. 

Bon de commande 

Dossier pour la formation 
du moniteur 

A I'ordre du: Conseil canadien de I'enfance et 
de la jeunesse 
323, rue Chapel 
Ottawa, Ontario 
KIN 7Z2 

II existe un nombre considerable d'excellents 
manuels qui sont disponibles pour venir en aide 
aux moniteurs sous Tangle pratique du 
programme de loisirs (artisanat, jeux, premiers 
soins) mais ... 

Un sondage recent k Techelle nationaleeffectue 
par le Comite national d'6tude sur les jeux de 
I'enfant a r6v6ie la carence d'une 
documentation relative aux principes du 
monitorat et de l'6panouissement de /'enfant 
dans le contexte ludique. 

Le dossier est centre sur ce besoin. 

II traite du role general du moniteur commun £ 
tous les milieux ludiques. II pourrait, etdevrait, 
etre complete £ Taide de materiel specifique- 
ment adapte £ la nature du programme et/ou de 
Torganisme. 



10 





Dispose of camp food 
service problems with 

royal Chinet 

disposable plates and bowls 

Strong, attractive Royal CHINET food service products help you ... 

• DISPOSE OF DISHWASHING COSTS 

Cut the expense of installing, maintaining and manning equipment 
that is used only a few months of the year. 

• DISPOSE OF BREAKAGE 

Save yourself the trouble and expense of buying matching replace¬ 
ments for pieces that crack, chip and shatter. 

• DISPOSE OF FOOD WASTE 

You get exact portion control with Royal CHINET’s wide range of 
sizes in regular and compartmented designs. 

• DISPOSE OF GERM COLLECTORS 

Royal CHINET products are sterilized when manufactured and 
packaged. And there’s never a germ-collecting chip, crack or 
poorly washed dish. 

• DISPOSE OF IRRITATING NOISE 

Disposable service is silent service. Meals are relaxed without the 
clatter and crash of china or metal. 

ENVIRONMENTAL ADVANTAGES, TOO 

All good campers want to protect the environment. Royal CHINET prod¬ 
ucts are manufactured from a renewable resource. What’s more, they’re 
biodegradable ... molded of natural wood fibres that burn readily with 
little smoke. Even if discarded out-of-doors, Royal CHINET quickly de¬ 
composes in the earth. 

Get the full particulars now. Mail this coupon today. 

CANADIAN KEYES FIBRE COMPANY LTD. 
HANTSPORT, NOVA SCOTIA 

Please provide me with details of the variety and costs of Royal 
CHINET food service products. 




COMPANY or CAMP 
ADDRESS 





PROV. 































_J----— - 

Canadian Camping Association 

FEDERAL SUPPORT 


All C.C.A. program and projects are 
made possible by financial contributions 
from the Fitness and Amateur Sport Branch 
of the Ministry of National Health and 
Welfare. Without this strong support, 
both financially and in sound advice, it 
would not be possible to carry out our 
many programs and projects. 

WHY JOIN? 

- To help promote the camping ideal in 
your province. 

- To learn about camping from the top 
experts in the field. 

- To participate in the camping movement. 

- To share ideas and knowledge about 
camping. 

- To obtain help and advice from our 
National Office. 


- To let the experience of others benefit 
you through our Consultation Service. 

- To participate in National C.C.A. Con¬ 
ferences which have proven to be of 
great value to directors and other staff. 

- To use a good library on camping. 

- To receive information regarding new 
publications on camping. 

- To utilize the Publications Service. 

One can order directly from the C.C.A., 
a number of very valuable publications. 

- Canadian Camping Magazine - keeps mem¬ 
bers informed of new ideas and trends 
in camping as well as offering help in 
planning maintenance, new ideas in pro¬ 
gram, ways to keep food bills in line 
and other articles that assist in im¬ 
proving the standards and quality of 
camping in Canada. 

Next month : C.C.A. Committees, Projects 
and Task Forces. 


OPT 00U 

* .UO '^qair*9)i 

•^ocoqaq 4 p 4 « * e.tn $ 
(duiro VOVaniHDIU dWVO 


6IIC-800 NSSI 


131 dfrlAI OIHV1NO ’OlNOyOl 
1S V 3 3 n N 3 A V N01NI193 201 'C02 31IOS 



f 


opouD.i tip sdian.i sop uoijnnosso 

UOlJDIOOSSD ifuiduw.l UDipDUDJ 












