Canadian 

camping 


Official Publication The Canadian Camping Association Vol. 28 

Publication Officielle L'Association des Camps du Canada No. 5 

102 Eglinton Avenue, E., Suite 203 Toronto, Ontario M4P 1E1 December 1976 


NEWS 

AND VIEWS 

FROM ACROSS CANADA 


Ontario 

The O.C.A. is in the process of 
launching a very definite, deliberate 
campaign to bring non-members into the 
association. Part of this involves the 
use of individuals to "woo" present non¬ 
member camps. A Past Presidents' council 
has been formed to discuss long range 
trends in camping and in the association. 

Future events: 

Executive Development Workshop - Jan. 10 
Annual Conference - March 3-6 
Annual Meeting - April 5 
Counsellor's Conference - May 14 


New Brunswick 

Altnough some people still feel 
threatened, priority is once again being 
given to work on Standards. The govern¬ 
ment has been very helpful in giving 
grants to camps - but such grants are on¬ 
ly given if a camp is a member of the 
N.B.C.A. 

Quebec 

A somewhat scary proposal is now being 
made by the Department of Labour...Water- 

1 


fronts in camps may not be deeper than six 
feet!!! 

Another highlight in Quebec is that 
they have formed a very active Day Camp 
Standards Committee. 


Nova Scotia 

George Matthews is pleased to report 
that Cape Breton is becoming more 
volved in camping.... The Department of 
Recreation has recently given a grant of 
83,600.00 to the N.S.C.A.... The Youth 
Hostel Association, Canoe Nova Scotia and 
the N.S.C.A. are combining certain forces 
to jointly hire a programme development 
director. 


Newfoundland and labrador 

There has been an upswing in the num¬ 
ber of camps being formed .... the most 
active groups being the Y.M.-Y.W.C.A., the 
Salvation Army and the Pentacostal Church. 
In addition to this more sites are being 
used by outside groups. 

Executive meetings are moving out of 
Barbara Taylor's kitchen and in to larger 
quarters, since all executive meetings 
are now open to anyone with in the New¬ 
foundland and Labrador Association. A 
great deal of interest has already been 
expressed. 

There's a concern in Newfoundland 
(shared by every other province) about 

cont. on page 4 _ 













A CHRISTMAS M £ S S A G E 

Communicating with friends is one of 
the benefits of this very special time of 
year* We on the executive of the C.C.A. 
send our greetings to all of youI May 
the joy of the season reside in your 
hearts all through 1977• 

Your Task Force on the goals of the 
C.C.A* is looking to the past to plan for 
the future* If any of you, the camping 
people of C.C.A., have a point of view on 
trends or directions or services, drop me 
a note at the camping office* 

May you all have the wind at your 
backs through the coming New Year* 

Good Camping, 

Ron Johnstone 
President 

****************** 


TAYLOR STATTEN MEMORIAL FELLOWSHIP 


Announcement is made of the Taylor 
Statten Memorial Fellowship, annual value 
of $1,000. open to applicants from any 
Canadian university and tenable at any 
university considered appropriate for the 
fellow* 

The award has been established to as¬ 
sist post-baccalaureate study in any pro¬ 
fessional field or career related to youth 
services, such as, but not restricted to, 
physical and health education, psychology, 
teaching, the ministry, and social work. 

Applications for the award must be sub¬ 
mitted before March 1 of the year in which 
application is made and application forms 
should be accompanied by a transcript of 
University record. Applicants are also 
responsible for ensuring that three let¬ 
ters of recommendation reach the Commit¬ 
tee before March 1: at least two of these 
should be written by university teachers 
with whom the applicant has studied. Se¬ 


lection will be made by the Taylor 
Statten Memorial Fund Committee. Only 
candidates under the age of 25 will be 
considered* 

Further information regarding the 
award and application forms can be se- 
curred in January from: 

The Office of Student Awards 
Room 107 
Simcoe Hall 
University of Toronto 
Toronto, Ontario M5S 1A1 
(4l6) 978-2183 




AMERICAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 

The Mid-Atlantic Regional Conference^ 
is being held in Buffalo, N*Y., Febru¬ 
ary 15-18, 1977* The organizers hope 
that many members of the C.C.A. will at¬ 
tend. 

Kindred Group meetings are to be 
held on the opening day of the Conven¬ 
tion and if enough are interested in 
attending, this .could, be iarranged* The 
opening Session starts at 8:00 P.M. Tues¬ 
day the 15th, an International Festival 
night is planned for the Free programme 
night on Wednesday, and many interesting 
Workshops and Seminars are being held* 
Registration forms and further informa¬ 
tion can be obtained at the C.C.A. office 

*********** 

The C.C A. is proud of two of its mem¬ 
bers who are participating in another 
American Camping Association conference, 
this time the Mid-America Convention, 
March 8-12 in Dearborn, Michigan. Grant 
McKeen of Vancouver is leading a session 
entitled "Camping as Therapy", and John 
Gullick of Toronto will be discussing 
"Camping for Children with Special Needs" 
Good luck, gentlemen! 



CANOE SCHOOLS 

by Cliff* Labbett 

C.R.C.A. 

In 1976, the Canadian Recreational 
Canoeing Association took over the opera¬ 
tion of the Canoe Instructors Schools 
which were founded in 19&7 1 by Professors 
Kirk Wipper of the University of Toronto, 
and Claude Cousineau of the University of 
Ottawa* This modest beginning at the 
University of Ottawa's camp site near 
Grace field, Quebec has now blossomed into 
six schools across Canada. In its first 
year of operation the C.R.C.A. has en¬ 
deavored to carry on the fine traditions 
set during the years 1967 to 1975» and we 
feel that we have succeeded* 

The Atlantic School was held at Camp 
Kadimah, near Bridgewater, N.S* for the 
period June 11-20, and operated under the 
direction of Walter Crotty of St. John's, 
Nfld., 25 students attended; 10 attained 
their instructors certificates; 14, their 
assistant instructors; and 1, a letter of 
attendance. 

Briefly summarizing the results from 
the other schools across Canada: with 4l 
students attending the French language 
school at Gracefield, 28 received their 
instructors; 11, the assistant instructors 
and there were two letters of attendance. 
During early August an English school was 
held, also at Gracefield , out of the 30 
who attended, 13 attained instructors, 11 + 
the assistants, 5 got letters of atten¬ 
dance, and one did not complete the course. 
The Ontario School at Camp Kandalore, was 
overwhelmed with applications, and with 
an attendance of 44 students gave out 12 
instructors, 27 assistant instructors, 
and 6 letters. The Mid-West School near 
Kenora gave 9 instructor certificates, 11 
assistants and 4 letters to 24 students; 
while at the Western School near Calgary, 
there were 25 candidates who received 12 
instructors, 10 assistants and 8 letters. 

1 failed to complete the course. 

Excellent feed-back was received from 
both staff and students concerning the 
quality of the courses. Some thought it 
was not long enough, but a longer- course 
would greatly increase the cost. Basically 


the content of the course is good, if 
there is a fault, it is perhaps that the 
course goes beyond what some of the stu¬ 
dents expected, and a few were not as 
technically advanced as they should have 
been. Maybe the literature outlining the 
course should have been more specific re¬ 
garding the the knowledge and ability the 
candidates should have to take the course. 

There is no doubt a person who leaves 
one of the schools with either an instruc¬ 
tors or an assistant instructors badge is 
highly qualified in the skills and know¬ 
ledge of canoeing. 

The six schools will be operating a- 
gain in the summer of 1977* The exact 
dates are yet to be finalized. Anyone 
interested in applying should contact one 
of the school directors or write to: 

Mr. Clifford Labbett 
3 Pine Forest Road 
Toronto, Ontario 

************** 


And that's why we walk behind the 
child. He feels your protection when 
you walk behind. If you give him a 
chance to go in any direction, he may be 
wrong when he goes this way or that. 

If it's a dead-end, pick him up gently 
and bring him to the main route. But 
never think that you know the answer, 
because you are dealing with an indi¬ 
vidual who may want to go very different 
routes, which for him, may be better. 
That's why I feel more comfortable be¬ 
hind the children so I can see where 
they are going. 

by Jeanne Simons 
Camp Towhee 
Haliburton, Ont. 
(submitted by Stan Wild) 


3 



News and Views (cont. from page l) 

the number of drownings in canoe acci¬ 
dents* Such accidents are due, not only 
to inexperienced people; cold weather 
and water; but above all, to the poor 
quality of canoes sold extensively in 
super markets. There is also a great 
concern about the quality of some of the 
approved P.F.Ds. as well as the fact 
that there is not a wide variety of such 
approved P.F.Ds. The C.C.A. is giving 
these concerns a great deal of consider¬ 
ation. 


Manitoba 

A Government grant was given to many 
students who were employed in M.C.A. 
camps. (846,000.00).••• The President 
has indicated a renewed leadership pro¬ 
gramme in rural areas. The government 
has purchased six camps, but they have 
also given new lands to old camps. This 
was done in conjunction with the Land 
Acquisition Branch and the Recreation 
Branch of the Manitoba Government. 

Brian Law has just completed a con¬ 
tract with the Canadian Association for 
the Mentally Retarded and reports that 
integration of retarded children into 
"normal" camp situations is extremely 
successful. 

The Provincial Government offered to 
pay the salary of a Standards visitor 
this past summer. (Jim Legitt) 

The M.C.A. regrets the departure of 
paat president Marvin Wall, Marvin has 
moved to Fdmonton to work with Youth for 
Christ. In fact, a few other executive 
members have changed provinces. Jim 
King has just finished a course at Out¬ 
ward Bound and is now looking for a job 
in Alberta. Larry Austman has become 
Director of Camp Chief Hector in Alberta. 
Pay Freyers has left the Winnipeg Recrea¬ 
tion Department and is headed for the 
Calgary Recreation Department. 

Saskatchewan 

Very deepest thanks on behalf of the 
Board of Directors of the C.C.A. to the 


great hosts in Saskatchewan during the 
recent C.C.A. meetings in Saskatoon. As 
usual, very hospitable, friendly and funZ 

The government is now offering assis¬ 
tance to help some camps in their winter¬ 
izing programmes. 

As in one or two other provinces, 
Government grants are not given to camps 
which are not accredited by the S.C.A. 
Those involved in the visitation must go 
through a training programme prior to 
the summer. 


British Columbia 

Here's a real switch. The B.C. Asso¬ 
ciation has been asked to operate an in- 
service training programme for those in¬ 
spectors hired by the Department of 
Health who will be visiting camps. The 
B.C.C.A. is also involved in drafting a 
Camp Director Certification Programme. 
Regional colleges and universities will 
offer this course. 


Alberta . .4 

Annual Conference of the Alberta 
Camping Association to be held February 
4-6, 1977 at Camp He-Ho-Ha.... High¬ 
lighting Land Management and "Play" 
(Children at Play, Staff at Play). For 
information contact Don Vosbergh. 

The Alberta Association is happy to 
report that their "Director's Guide for 
Counsellor Training" should be off the 
press in the New Year. Also available 
in the future will be a "Practical Guide 
to Hebertism", for through the Depart¬ 
ment of Recreation and Parks, three camps 
were given funds in 19?6 to set up 
Hebertism courses, the Guide results from 
their experiences. 

£******* 


"Canadian Camping^is published 6 times 
a year. 

Subscription Rates: 

85*00 - 1 year; 812.00 - 3 years 
C.C.A. membership includes subscription 



o 




GAMP INSURANCE 

How Well Are You Covered? by W. Grant Kerr 

(reprinted with Mr. Kerr's permission from his article in a United Church publica¬ 
tion (Spring 1976) entitled "Church Camping".) 

CAMPING as a business is unlike any other business and thus its insurance needs 
and problems are unique. One uncovered loss could result in disaster and thus many 
years of financial sacrifice and hard work, which have gone into the building of a 
successful camp operation, could be jeopardized and the entire project be lost 
through inadequate insurance coverage. 

Not everyone understands the complexities of insurance: it would be very helpful, 
therefore, if the camp committee or owner included in its membership someone who 
actually worked in the insurance area, or was knowledgeable regarding it. Such a 
person could take the necessary time to become thoroughly familiar with the entire 
camp operation and thus be in a position to advise on an adequate insurance pro¬ 
gramme. This is too important a matter to be left to chance, and so periodic review 
of insurance carried is an important agenda item for every camp committee. 

Premium costs for insurance coverage will vary from camp to camp, depending on 
the scope of the coverage, the type and condition of buildings, etc., but in any 
case all such costs should be considered part of the necessary operational budget 
and taken into consideration in setting camp fees. 

Some of the following guidelines might be helpful in determining the coverage 
you should be carrying. 

1. Some Provinces have mandatory provisions relative to a camper's protection: 
obtain from government or insurance sources any information relative to such 
provisions. Make a survey of the camp's insurance needs without reference 
to what you may now be carrying; try to be clear on what you ought to have. 

2. Investigate a number of possible insurers re. the types of insurance they 
can provide, the rates, and how suitable any "package" deal might be for 
your camp. 

3. Write insurance specifications for your camp (the insurance person on your 
committee can be very helpful here) and then submit them to a number of 
insurance companies for advice and recommendations. 

4. Compare the coverages offered by the various companies, then select the one 
which provides the best protection in the areas you have determined as im¬ 
portant for your camp. Discuss your total insurance needs with this com¬ 
pany and have them design a package specifically suited to your camp. 

5. Evaluate your insurance programme annually, or at least every three years, 
since many policies are on a three year basis. Many camps have good policies 
which were adequate a number of years ago, but in the intervening years, 
buildings have been torn down, new ones built, additional equiment has been 
secured, and perhaps most important of all, inflation has made the amounts j 
originally set as replacement values seem almost unbelievable in the light 

of today's prices. 

cont. on page 6 






6. Be sure to keep accurate records of yo.ur insurance business. Premuim due 
dates, amounts covered on the various items, renewal dates, payments made, 
any claims that had to be made. Such records will enable the camp to make 
comparisons of value, experience, etc., to guide future insurance planning. 
It might also point to areas of camp life that need checking, if a number of 
claims originate for similar reasons. Hazards of whatever kind could be 
discovered and steps taken to eliminate them. 

The following list indicates a number of types of coverage that are important and 
deserve attention. 

Liability 


Liability insurance is now considered to be the most essential part of a camping 
insurance program. Not too long ago many non-profit camps - and particularly church 
camps - were looked upon as having immunity from lawsuits and were granted immunity 
in certain provinces. However, our neighbors in the United States can testify that 
large amounts of money have been awarded to individuals as a result of lav/suits 
brought against both agency and independent camps because of negligence. Insurance 
is to protect you against what might happen... and one of the things that might hap¬ 
pen is that you could be sued, should there be an accident causing bodily injury or 
death. 

Fire Insurance is also an important part of the liability insurance portfolio. 

There are two main factors here: (a) bodily injury liability and, (2) property damage 
liability. It is recommended that a camp carry not less than $200,000 for bodily 
injury and $20,000 for property damge. Frankly, it would be better still to carry 
$500,000 on bodily injury. Some camps are even carrying-liability insurance*'that 
gives coverage up to one million dollars. Many insurance companies are not too 
anxious to write insurance for camps, and those that do keep a wary eye on this busi¬ 
ness. When planning day camps, or travel camps, it is particularly important to get 
insurance quotations, since these are sometimes quite high and could seriously af¬ 
fect your fee structure. 

Most of the general camp activities are covered in the per-camper per day chargees, 
as scheduled under the liability policy. Specific items scheduled on the policy 
other than the camper days will include rowboats, canoes, power-driven boats, motors, 
sailboats, malpractice and products coverage, and horses. Products coverage, for ex¬ 
ample, protects the camp if an individual is stricken with food poisoning. Malprac¬ 
tice coverage protects one against suits for treatment given by doctors and nurses 
in the camp's employ (or for whose services the camp is responsible). Continguent 
malpractice covers the latter case where the doctors or nurses are not directly em¬ 
ployed by your camp. 

One other point to keep in mind regarding liability is to make sure your staff are 
covered as well as your campers and camp. All it takes is to have a phrase in the 
appropriate place on the policy to indicate that staff are included.... but if it is 
not there you cannot assume that they are actually covered by your policy. 

Automobile Liability 


It is imperative that high limits of liability be carried on camp vehicles. The 
American Camping Association recommends a minimum of S100,000 up to a maximum of 
$5,000,000 for camp vehicle coverage. 


6 


cont. on page 7 



Any vehicles used in transporting calipers have excessive exposures. In the event 
of an accident where negligence is involved, the awards could run into millions of 
dollars. In addition, a comprehensive form should be used for both non-owned and 
hired vehicles. For example, a staff member using his or her vehicle in transporting 
campers or performing other services for the camp, can be held responsible in the 
event of negligence. Actually, the vehicle should be designated as a camp vehicle 
when used for the transportation of campers and staff. (Non-owned automobile policy) 
If you lease your grounds to outside groups, for example, and these groups wish to 
use your vehicles for transportation, this should not be allowed unless you determine 
that your organization or incorporated body which actually owns the property which 
your camp is own, is totally protected in case of mishap. The auto policies are gen¬ 
erally in your organizations name and coverage would not extend to an outside group 
even though your permission might have been given. It is also important to insist 
on a Certificate of Insurance from a leasing firm when hiring or leasing vehicles..*, 
and this applies in most provinces. 

Comprehensive insurance for vehicles includes fire, theft, windstorm, vandalism, 
glass breakage, plus other risks. It appears that some companies will not write full 
comprehensive insurance on vehicles over ten years of age, but fire and theft can be 
written in. Furthermore, if these vehicles are used only during the camp season, the 
period of insurance need only be such as to cover them when in actual use. 


Fire Insurance 


Insurance companies are somewhat apprehensive about writing fire insurance on 
camps. Some of the reasons for this are obvious; camps are usually located in re¬ 
mote areas, well beyond the territory covered by any local Fire Department: should 
a fire start, the fire trucks cannot arrive in time to be of much help - even if they 
can get there at all. This is especially true in the winter-time. When securing 
your insurance it is best to have all buildings on the property covered; in fact, 
most companies are reluctant to write insurance for just the dining hall or lodge, 
they mush prefer a greater spread of coverage. 

There are things which can be done to help reduce the rates charged for fire in¬ 
surance, or keep the exposure charges to a minimum. These include: 

a. In some provinces rates will be substantially reduced if there is a full- 
caretaker on the property. 

b. The use of approved fire-resistant roofing material on new buildings will 
also help reduce rates. 

c. Adequate distance between structures will help eliminate exposure charges. 

d. Provide adequate fire extinguishers in all buildings. 

Camp properties should be re-appraised at least every three years. This will be 
of considerable help when, or if, a fire should occur* Many camp policies are writ¬ 
ten on a 90% co-insurance basis, which means that the policy should cover at least 
90 % of the actual value of the camp. If a 90% co-insurance clause is written and 
the camp value is.under this percentage, the camp becomes a co-insurer and could suf¬ 
fer a financial loss in the event of a serious fire. 

In some cases, vandalism and malicious mischief can be added to the fire insur¬ 
ance contract. 

Make sure that your insurance company does not charge you the annual rate if your 
camp is only open for half of the year. You will, however, want to have some insur¬ 
ance for the whole year to protect against vandalism, fire, or other damage during 

the winter months. , p 

cont. on page o 


7 



Miscellaneous Coverages 


Coverage can be secured in today's market for the following: 


Cargo insurance - 

Outboard Motor - 
Boat Policy 


covers contents of trucks and is usually needed only when the 
value of goods being transported is high. 

to cover loss of boats used by camps. Generally, an all risk 
form is written, but specific peril is also available. 


Theft insurance - generally better for camps than burglary insurance because forci¬ 
ble entry does not need to be proved to prove a loss. 

Personal Effects - not much used, since not too much of great value is brought to 
of campers camp by either staff or campers. 

Volunteer Worker - this type of policy is generally limited to accident or acciden- 


Coverage 


tal death coverage for volunteers working on the campsite. How¬ 
ever, this could cover both pre and post camp repair or construc¬ 
tion workers, Some of the provinces require that volunteer workers 
be covered also by Workmen's Compensation. This should be investi¬ 
gated prior to the use of volunteers. This is a rather grey area 
with both governments and insur nee people. Some provinces have 
held that such volunteers are eligible for compensation benefits 
and hence must be covered. It is wise to check with the Workmen's 
Compensation Board in your particular area regarding their policy 
with respect to volunteer workers. 


TIME FOR A CHANGE 

The C.C.A. needs a new Logo.... some¬ 
thing which symbolizes and represents 
Canadian Camping on a National basis. 

We are therefore pleased to announce a 
contest to seek out a new Logo which can 
be used on letterhead, brochures, and 
which could perhaps be adapted to inte¬ 
grate with Provincial Logos.... or Pro¬ 
vincial Letterhead. 

The Contest is open to anyone in 
Canada who is or has been involved with 
an ACCREDITED camp... camper, C.I.T., 

Staff Member. Individuals who are now 
currently making their living in the com¬ 
mercial art field, or in teaching art are 
prohibited from entering the contest. 

The design should be submitted 
NO LATER THAN MARCH 15. 1977 . to the 
C.C.A. office. 

The winner will receive a cheque for 
$ 50.00 which will be presented at the 
Annual Meeting of the Association, to be 
held in Squamish, B.C., next April... 

All expenses paid to and from SquamishIJ' 

It is hoped that every Camp Director 
will consider involving campers and staff 
in this exciting project and contest. 8 


Classified Ads 


CAMP DIRECTOR with 7 years 
experience, is seeking a full time posi¬ 
tion. For resume and further details, 
please write: John 

24 Mabelle Avenue 
Apt. 1517 
Toronto, M9A 4A7 
(4l6) 233-4346 


WANTED 

Camp Director and Swim Director 
for a Day Camp on Lake Simcoe 


June 15 to August 30 
(approximately) 

For information please call: 


221-5491 (days) 
444-6172 (evenings) 




Hints on Winter Camping by John Beedell 

' Bark Lake Camp 

Leadership Centre 

Why Go Winter Camping? 

1. The Indian and the Eskimo lived with the land, and it is interesting to gain some 

2. It is a natural extension of our summer camping but we are substituting our mode 
of travel. Instead of canoeing or back padking, we are skiing, snowshoeing or 

hiking to our destination. 

3. It is a challenge - most people associated with the outdoors like a challenge. 


Equipment 
1. Sleeping Bags 

I consider this to be one area where you must spend a little money. You should 
be thinking of $100 to $150 if you don't have a summer weight down bag. If you 
do own a summer down bag then you can purchase a bag such as a Black Icelandic 
Special or Woods Mount Whitney ($ 65 . - $100.), place your summer down bag inside 
and be reasonably prepared for 15° below 0° F. 

Because of the loft of the down, air is captured and provides insulation, except 
for the part of your bag under your body. Since your weight compresses the down, 

it offers little insulation. To counteract this you must have a closed cell foam 

such as Enrolite or Blaxlite }&" or 1.25 cm thick. These will cost from $5* to 
$10. depending on type. 

How to Use Sleeping Bags 

a) The loft or height that the down can sit usually determines the amount of air 
it will hold and this trapped air insulates you. As mentioned above you must com¬ 
pensate with insulation for the bottom of your bag. With this in mind you should 
shake your sleeping bag before you climb in. A sheet insert gives a little more 
warmth and also separates you from cold nylon. Cotton bags are liable to breathe 
better than nylon and not so liable to hold moisture. Nylon bags are easier t© 
maintain. You must decide which you prefer. 

b) Always place zippers on alternate sides so that air leakage is minimal and 

make sure the inside zipper flap is hanging down over the zipper. 

c) The advice for sleeping bags, that "the colder it gets the more you take off" 

seems crazy but it is quite logical. If the central heating in your house can't 
keep up with the leakage, you have a cold house; similarly, if you keep clothes 
on in the sleeping bag, soon you will have a cold place to sleep. 

d) Other hints: Tie bags at the top around your neck - the outer one first. 

Wear a toque and keep your head out of the bag. Your moist breath will soon re¬ 
quire all your calories to change moisture into water vapour. 


9 


cont. on page 10 



Removing your clothes while conserving body heat is an art in itself and each per¬ 
son has to find out how to do this in a sleeping bag, I tend to wear only a pair 
of socks and short underwear - sometimes a T-shirt. My outer coat is usually un¬ 
der legs and feet on top of my pack because the foam is usually shorter than body 
length (24" x 28"). All other clothing is inserted between the two bags, except 
if it is wet. I would rather have it freeze than freeze me. I leave my boots 
outside too. Dry anything the night before if possible. 

Added hints - don't drink too much before bed and go and urinate before you decide 
to turn in. 

2. Clothing and Footwear 

The most essential part of winter clothing is that it capture insulating air and 
this usually means layers of clothing. Most people have a few sweaters, a couple 
©f pairs of loose fitting pants, some long underwear, and a long sleeved shirt and 
some type of jacket (preferably a parka) that comes below the hips. With this 
combination you can usually face a Canadian winter. 

The feet require a little more care and I recommend either the moccains with rub¬ 
ber bottoms with two or three pairs of socks or if you can buy the boots big 
enough, you can insert a snowmobile liner inside for maximum warmth. (TAke an ex¬ 
tra pair of liners along just as you do socks - they get damp from perspiration 
just as socks do.) Snowmobile boots are good but heavy for walking. The essen¬ 
tial thing is to have your feet dry and not too tightly compressed in your foot¬ 
wear. 

Your hands are best covered with mitts (a woolen mitt inside a leather mitt). Add 
a toque for your head and you are ready to face the winter blasts. 

Extras in this department are string underwear ( 2 pieces about $17* - 9l8.) but 
you must wear long underwear over it. String underwear seems to prevent sweating 
and does keep you warmer by trapping and holding air. 

How to Use your Clothing 

As I have mentioned the biggest fear is sweating (other than frostbite of the ex¬ 
tremities) and if you can control this you will remain warm. If you plan an im¬ 
mediate activity remove some of your clothing and put it back on when you stop the 
activity. If you wear a T-shirt next to the skin and it becomes damp, change it 
rather than thinking it will dry. 


3. Cooking Equipment 

I have found a nesting set of pots which sells for about 925. - 930. to be satis¬ 
factory in winter. You must remember that you require a few more pots than in 
summer because of the melting of snow for water. ('If you ate near water however, 
chop a hole through the ice. Start with a three foot diameter hole and chop down. 
As soon as you pierce the bottom of the ice, the water will flow up to ice level.) 

Remember to empty all pots of liquids and do your dishes after each meal. I tend 
to soap the outside of the pots and leave them black, just cleaning the insides, 
while I'm staying at a campsite. 

cont. on page 11 


10 



4, Food and Utensils 

- * - 

If your don’t mind weight and you want to eat cheaply you can use canned goods 
and dry foods such ss soup, spaghetti, macaroni, etc* You will have to thaw the 
tins out before you use them, since the contents are hard to remove* Taking off 
both ends of the tin will help. Most fruits with sugar syrup tend to have a 
lower freezing point and are easier to remove. Dehydrated food is good and light 
to carry but the recommended soaking period can have its problems* Don’t take 
bottles, they will freeze* Use as many things dry as possible i*e. milk powder, 
tea, coffee.or oatmeal* Limit your dishes to a bowl or plate, a cup and a spoon. 
People soon realize you can have your soup in a cup and later your dessert fol¬ 
lowed by your beverage. Have the people on dishwashing put the water on as soon 
as a pot is available and this will speed up the meal time. 

Sanitation and Toilet Areas 

The ground is hard in winter and you can’t dig a hole. Choose a place that won't 
drain into rivers or lakes and -dig a hole in the snow. A clump of evergreens, 
because it will break the wind, will make an excellent toilet area* 

Unused food should be placed in the same areas. Animals of the forest will soon 
clean up this portion of the waste. 


Shelters 

Many of the shelters used in summer, are adaptable in winter use. Tents help 
break the wind and do*warm up a bit. The problems that arise are usually due to 
condensation build-up inside and the difficulty of pegging them in the snow. 

Adequate venting helps cut down condensation build-up. Some tents have a double 
roof which allows moisture to pass through the first layer and it is vented out 
from the second roof. 

By packing down the snow, and leaving it for half an hour, it will harden when 
the temperature is low. You can then place long pegs or sticks in the firm snow 
but don’t tighten your tent cords too much. Using a rope between two trees for 
the peak of your tent will also increase your chances of having it stay up. 

Poles will go down in snow until they hit frozen earth unless they have a wide 

bottom. 

Digging into snow drifts, if they are big enough, can produce good results. 

Pick one on the side of a cliff. Always remember to put your entrance lower 
than your floor if possible or cold air will pour into the sleeping area* Also 
you should poke a few vent holes in the top for fresh air. Adequate insulation 
on the floor such as straw or evergreens will prevent moisture getting the bed¬ 
ding wet. 

Plastic shelters are another way that cheap cover can be made. Rope is usually 

required to hold these up. Condensation build-up is quite high in this shelter 

but they are light and easy to carry. 


6. Transportation of Equipment 

Usually you find that in winter you will have more equipment than in summer. 
Double sleeping bags, underpads, etc*, although light, still take up room. Also 
you eat more food and carry more clothes. 

Regular toboggans can be fitted with a wooden box so that packs won’t drag. Care 


11 


cont. on page 12 



must be taken not to make the load top heavy. A fan of ropes can be put on to 
allow two or three people to pull.the toboggan* 

7. Winter Activities 

There are many activities that make winter camping enjoyable but one of them is 
not sitting around relaxing. The word is activity and plenty of it. 

If you feel cold - move - Indian wrestle with yourself or someone else. Getting 
fire-wood has a two fold purpose; it keeps you warm while you are sawing, chop¬ 
ping or breaking it and it keeps you warm later when you burn it. 

Cross-country skiing and snowshoeing both can be used for reaching the camping 
area and for a later activity such as exploration or keeping warm. 

Climbing can be very adventuresome and great fun. Children love to work their 
way up a slope and then by controlled sliding or leaping go down the hill. Care 
should be used in picking out a slope because even minor avalanches can be dan¬ 
gerous and can smother a person. 

In the world of nature, new areas open up. Rabbits, deer, foxes, etc., can all 
be followed to their feeding areas and lairs. Winter birds are often sighted. 
Deciduous trees can still be identified by their bark and buds. There are many 
nature books that give illustrations. Many lichens can be seen on trees, rocks, 
etc. and used as survival foods if you are interested in that aspect of camping. 

Ice fishing can be tried but find out about local regulations as to whether a 
lake can be fished and what types of fish can be caught. 


Common sense is the greatest asset a camper can have in either winter or summer. By 
using common sense and planning, winter camping can be every bit a enjoyable as sum¬ 
mer. Start slowly, however, and test your equipment in an area close to civilization. 
The back yard would be a good place to start on your new adventure in camping. If it 
is successful, then the whole outdoors is open to you. 

Bibliography 

Blackshaw, Alan, Mountaineering 
Cunningham, Gerry, How to Keep Warm (booklet) 

Manning, Editor, Mountaineering 

Mowat, Farley, Tundra McClelland and Stewart Ltd. 

Rustrum, Paradise Below Zero 


• iUQ ‘qirioabqje^aj 

*£601 xog *0'd 

•qoroy *y Bfcfoom *jk 

6TT£-800 NSSI 


T3T d+fW oxaequo ‘oquoaoj, 
ZOZ # *3 enuaAv uoquxiSa ?0T 
uoxqexoossv Suxdunso trexpeuieQ 










