



















CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 
Suite 203, 102 Eglinton Ave. East 
Toronto, Ontario M4P 1E1, Canada 

President President 

John Latimer, 102 Eglinton Ave. E., 
Suite 203, Toronto, Ont. M4P 1E1 
Regional Vice-Presidents 

Vice-Presidents regionaux 

John Hasell, 1616 W. 7th Ave. 
Vancouver, B.C. 

Eileen Mayotte, 87 Coldwell Rd., 
Regina, Sask. 

Ron Johnstone, 805 Valetta St., 
London, Ont. N6H 2Z2 
Robert Lazanik, 5165 Sherbrooke St. W. 
Suite 316, Montreal 260, Que. 

Robert Cameron, Recreation & Parks Dept., 
City Hall, Main St., Moncton, N.B. 
Secretary Secretaire 

Jay Haddad, 102 Eglinton Ave. E., 

Suite 203, Toronto, Ont. M4P 1E1 
Treasurer Tresorier 

Bryan Graham, Coopers & Lybrand 
145 King St. West, Toronto M5H 1J8 
Past President L'ex-president 

Rev. David Hartry, 

Diocese of Nassau of the Bahamas 
P.O. Box N107, Nassau, N.P., Bahamas 
Committee Presidents des 

Chairmen comites 

Canadian Camping Magazine 
Bill Henderson, 1162 Bay Street 
Toronto, Ont. M5S 2B6 
Standards 

Hank Roessingh, 540 — 49 Ave. S.W., 
Calgary 6, Alta. 

Canoe Schools 
Claude Cousineau, 

School of Physical Education & Recreation, 
University of Ottawa,Ottawa,Ont. KIN 6N5 
Constitutional Task Force 
Stanley Wild, 740 Avenue Road, 
Toronto, Ont. M5P 2K2 
Publications 
Brian Blackstock, 

Mazinaw Lake Outdoor Education Centre, 
Cloyne, Ontario K0H 1K0 
Outdoor Education 
Robert Cameron, 

Recreation and Parks Dept., City Hall, 
Main St., Moncton, N.B. 

Editorial Committee Comite de redaction 
Bill Henderson (Chairman), 

Bob Attfield, Maurice Beaudreau, 

Brian Blackstock, Jean Darrach, Doug Dent, 
Eanswythe Flynn, Bryan Graham, 
Bruno Morawetz, Jocelyn Palm, 

Ann Prewitt, Hank Roessingh, 

Paul Rushton, Kirk Wipper 


table of contents-sommaire 


Vol. 26 No. 2 

Winter/Spring Edition 1974 edition d'hiver/du printemps 

HAVE YOU HEARD? DO YOU KNOW?. 1 

by Helen Stewart 

A MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT. 3 

by John Latimer 

A CASE FOR "PARTICIPATIVE" CAMPING . 6 

by Al Knox 

THE ERMINE OWL. 7 

by Larry R. Johnston 

YOUR JOB AS A COUNSELLOR STARTS NOW!. 8 

by Viiu Kanep 

DESPENSES. 11 

by Clarence Ferguson 

EARTH DAY . 14 

by Arnold R. Cohen 

WIDE GAMES. 17 

by Neil Graham 

FROM QUEBEC and FROM NEW BRUNSWICK. 19 

CLASSIFIED ADS. 21 

OUTDOOR COOKERY . 21 

by Helen Stewart 

FROM KITCHEN WASTE TO FRESH FOOD. 23 

by Sam G. Hambly 

Cover Couverture 


Photo Courtesy Camp Kipawa Wilderness Adventures 


CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 

Published 4 times a year 
By The Canadian Camping Association 
Subscription rates: $4-1 year, $10-3 years 
(Distributed free to members) 

$1.25 per single copy 

Editor editrice 

Helen E. Stewart 
Apt. 510, 240 Markland Drive, 
Etobicoke, Ontario M9C 1R3 
(416) 621-3791 

National president de la 

Advertising Chairman publicite nationale 
Doug Dent, 145 Lincoln Road, 
Waterloo, Ontario N2J 2N8 


REPRODUCTION, IN ANY FORM, OF 
MATERIAL IN "CANADIAN CAMPING" 
MUST HAVE WRITTEN PERMISSION OF 
THE CANADIAN CAMPING 
ASSOCIATION 


PROVINCIAL BUREAUX 

OFFICES PROVINCIAUX 


B.C. Camping Association 
2735 E. Hastings St., Vancouver 6, B.C. 
(Grant McKeen, President) 

Alberta Camping Association 
332-6th Ave.S.W., Calgary, Alta. T2P 0R1 
(Jan James, President) 

Saskatchewan Camping Association 
1410 Kilburn St., Saskatoon, Sask. 
(Michael Pezderic, President) 

Manitoba Camping Association 
Suite 217, 267 Edmonton Street, 
Winnipeg, Man. 

(Gordon Stewart, President) 

Ontario Camping Association 
102 Eglinton Ave. E., Suite 203, 
Toronto, Ont. M4P 1E1 
(Jack Pearse, President) 


L'association des camps du Quebec 
and 

Quebec Camping Association 
952 Cherrier St., Montreal, Quebec 
(Rev. Pere Rosaire Corbin, president) 
English section 

2233 Belgrave Ave., Montreal 261, Quebec 
(Zave Ettinger, President) 

Section francaise 

952 rue Cherrier, Montreal, Quebec 
(Robert Maisonneuve, president) 

Nova Scotia Camping Association 
Box 40, Brooklyn, Queens Co., N.S. B0J 1 HO 
(Rev. David M. Boston, President) 

New Brunswick Camping Association 
Recreation & Parks Dept., City Hall, 
Main St., Moncton, N.B. 

(Tim Easley, President) 
Newfoundland & Labrador 
Camping Association 
Box 4188, St. John's, Nfld. 

(Frank Jennings, President) 

















<5 


o* 


heard? do a 


Xt 




** 


4 


% 


The ACA’s 17th Annual Seminar for Camp 
Directors and Senior Staff, held at Banff Center 
in January, had as its theme “New Adventures in 
Camping”. After reading the programme, we wished that so 
many miles didn’t prevent us from attending. With A1 Schaffer as its 
Conference Chairman it was bound to be a success. A Apparently the 
NBCA is having growing pains trying to build up its membership. Many camps 
have to be convinced of the value of CCA. Hopefully, this magazine may be one way 
to help them get out of the doldrums and on top. AVery special thanks to Paul Belanger 
who has reported the following news from the Quebec scene . . . M. Yves Beauregard a rendu des 
services incalculables a notre association comme directeur executif permanent de l’A.C.Q.-Q.C.A. depuis 
plusieurs annees. II vient d’etre nomme Directeur du Camp des Enfants Infirmes (Societe des Enfants Infirmes 
du Quebec). Felicitations et reconnaissance. A Des janvier cette annee, l’A.C.Q.-Q.C.A. organise plusieurs stages de 




formation (cours de base et de spe- 
cialites) pour moniteurs de camps de 
vacances tant du cote de Quebec que 
de Montreal. Ces stages sont en grande 
partie subventionnes par le Haut-Com- 
missariat a la Jeunesse, aux Loisirs et 
aux Sports du Gouvernement du 
Quebec. A Le theme du Congres de 
l’A.C.Q.-Q.C.A., les 28-29-30 mars 
1974 au Reine Elisabeth de Montreal, 
sera “Une Dynamique du Change - 
ment” Please keep your news coming, 
Paul. A The Editorial Committee would 
very much like to include an article in 
French in every issue of the magazine 
and so would appreciate receiving the 
material. And how about some Tips? 
As you can understand, the copy sub¬ 
mitted would have to be edited, ready 
to pass on to the typesetter. Your 
Editor regrets that, although she has 
enough command of the French 
language to proof-read, she cannot 
edit an article in French. Hopefully 
you will be interested in writing an 
article or tip and send it along to Paul. 
En avance, merci a nos amis en 
Quebec. A The Canadian Churchman, 
the national publication of the Angli¬ 
can Church, has asked Eanswythe 
Flynn to write copy for a monthly 
article on hints for parents whose 
children will be going to camp. This 
will appear with advertisements about 
children’s camps. Anyone wishing to 
advertise their camp would be advised 
to write immediately for information 
to The Canadian Churchman, 600 
Jarvis Street, Toronto 5. A The dates 
and locations have been set for the 
following Canoe Schools . . . Atlantic 
School at Camp Wapomeo, Yarmouth, 
N.S. - June 10-19 with Susan Cousi- 


neau,Director* English Eastern School 
at the University of Ottawa Camp, 
Gracefield, Que. — May 30-June 8 with 
Doug Wipper, Director • French Eastern 
School at the U. of 0. Camp, Grace- 
Field, Que. - June 10-19 with Gaston 
Lemire, Director • Mid-West School at 
Camp B’nai B’rith, Kenora - June 1-10 
with Jim King, Director • Western 
School at Camp Chief Hector, Banff- 
June 19-28 with Claude Cousineau and 
Kirk Wipper, Directors. A From en¬ 
couragement received at Geneva Park, 
Philip Giberson from the N.B.C.A. 
tried his stab to get a travel grant from 
the Secretary of State and was success¬ 
ful which meant that 21 'teenagers 
travelled by bus for 5 days in Ottawa 
and 1 day and night in Montreal. They 
“camped” in homes and some meals 
were cooked in the out-of-doors. Philip 
also suggests that an excellent program 
idea would be an exchange of campers 
and/or leaders, possibly 5 in number, 
with another camp. Ashe points out, it 
is a great way to exchange ideas and 
get to know this country of ours. A 
Reprints of the article on Miss Mary S. 
Edgar by Mary L. Northway, which 
appeared in the Fall Issue of “Canadian 
Camping”, may be purchased from the 
C.C.A. Office at a charge of 50$ which 
includes mailing and handling costs. A 
What a delight it was to hear that the 
Girl Guides of Canada plan on recog¬ 
nizing National Camping Day this 
summer! Will other camps across 
Canada follow their lead? We wonder. 
A Before signing a “30-30” to this 
column, there are two people we’d 
like to recognize with a large swish of 
the hat! Why? Because the honour 
they have both received was well- 


deserved. In December, at the Investi¬ 
ture Ceremony at Queen’s Park in 
Toronto, Lieutenant-Governor Ross 
Macdonald presented the Common¬ 
wealth Award, the Service Cross, to 
Jocelyn Palm, for her many years of 
outstanding service to The Royal Life 
Saving Society of Canada. Her citation 
states her many contributions to the 
Society and the words “served with 
distinction ”, “a good-will ambassador ”, 
“far beyond the call of duty ” aptly 
explains why she has been singled out 
for this outstanding award. Your many 
friends across Canada, Joe, wish you 
every success and happiness. The OCA 
is the richer for your presence on its 
Board. A A gentleman who has contri¬ 
buted a great deal to the Canadian 
camping scene is Kirk Wipper. The 
Ontario Government has presented him 
with a plaque in official recognition 
for his contribution during the Queen’s 
visit last summer. The International 
Museum of Canoes and Kayaks pro¬ 
vided a Canot du Maitre, known as the 
Montreal canoe, for the pageant held 
at Old Fort William, a famous fur 
trading post. The canoe, 36 feet long, 
made entirely of birch bark and natural 
material, with no nails, was equipped 
with all its fittings including paddles 
and sail. The Royal Couple were so 
intrigued with the event that they 
engaged in conversation with the 
paddlers. It is of interest to know that 
this canoe may be seen at the Inter¬ 
national Museum of Canoes and 
Kayaks, located adjacent to Camp 
Kandalore in Dorset. A So long for 
now. 

- Helen Stewart 


1 



CAMPING PUBLICATIONS 

— publications service, CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 


LEADERSHIP TRAINING 

*THE CAMP COUNSELLORS BOOK. Northway & Lowes. 

— a popular aid to counsellors by two well-known Canadian camp 


directors. 146 p. $1.95 

SO YOU WANT TO BE A CAMP COUNSELLOR. Elmer F. Ott. 

— an introduction to the job expressly written for the camp 

counsellor. 112 p. $1.50 

CAMP COUNSELLOR'S MANUAL. Ledlie and Holbein. 

— what the counsellor must know and what he must be if he is to 

be an asset to his camp. 128 p. $1.75 

CAMP MANAGEMENT 

A CAMP DIRECTOR TRAINS HIS OWN STAFF. Hammett 

— suggestions for in-camp and pre-camp training. 

A.C.A. $ .75 

CAMP JOB DESCRIPTIONS 

— job descriptions for basic positions. A.C.A. $ .50 


CAMPCRAFT 

A.C.A. CAMPCRAFT INSTRUCTORS MANUAL 

— a manual which provides the Instructor with a framework for a 

successful campcraft program for campers of ALL ages and 
abilities. 92 p. $2.00 

WOODCRAFT. "Nessmuk" 

— the original woodcraft book. Sears 101 p. $1.50 

CHURCH CAMPING 

HOW TO BE A CAMP COUNSELLOR 

— a manual for successful Christian camping. Spells out the oppor¬ 
tunities, duties, and qualifications of a Christian camp counsellor. 

$ .75 

CAMPING TOGETHER AS CHRISTIANS 

— an excellent resource for Protestant church camps (and others 
seeking aid in the spiritual development of their program). 

148 p. $1.50 

CHURCH CAMPING 

— an administrative manual dealing with a church sponsored experi¬ 

ence in group living. Offers guidance to planning committees, 
sponsors and the director. 140 p. $3.25 

CANOEING 

BASIC RIVER CANOEING. McNair. 

— the complete manual for white water canoeing. 

A.C.A. 104 p. $1.50 


MALO'S COMPLETE GUIDE TO CANOEING AND CANOE 

CAMPING 

— an indispensible reference for the beginner and seasoned outdoors- 
man, packed with pictures, diagrams, and technical know-how. 

$1.95 

COOKING 

* COOKERY FOR KIDS , KAMP TV KICKS. Stewart. 

— a fine book for campers to use when planning meals for out-trips. 
Excellent in-camp recipes; 2 one-week menus for camp included. 

81 p. $3.50 

THE OLD-FASHIONED DUTCH OVEN COOKBOOK. Holm. 

— authentic sourdough baking. Full of pioneer recipes and methods. 

106 p. $3.95 

NATURE LORE 

ACCLIMATIZATION 

— the popular book about a sensory and conceptual approach to 

ecological involvement. One of the biggest sellers in the American 
Camping Association this Dast year. 138 p. $3.25 

HEALTH AND SAFETY 

THE CAMP PHYSICIANS MANUAL. Thomas. 

— an on-the-spot reference to the common medical and surgical 

problems encountered at summer camps. 192 p. $8.50 

OTHER ACTIVITIES 

TEACHING RIDING AT SUMMER CAMP. Price 

— a comprehensive guide to the managing of stables and teaching 

children the basics of good horsemanship. Details on how to con¬ 
duct programs for the beginner, intermediate and advanced 
riders plus a great variety of special events programs. $1.95 

THE SMALL BOAT SAILOR'S BIBLE. Smith. 

— a complete guide to buying, maintaining, and sailing small sail¬ 
boats, with over 100 illustrations. 147 p. $2.75 

LEARN TO SWIM. Waterman 

— a clear to-the-point manual outlines a series of lessons and 

exercises specially designed toiincrease confidence and skill in the 
water. 160 p. $1.95 

1973 ONTARIO CONFERENCE DIGEST 

CAMP IS GROWING UP — a digest packed with ideas which will be 
of value to all counsellors and senior staff. 104 p. $5.00 

♦ONCE THERE WAS A CAMPER 

Mary Edgar's popular book of poems which are of interest and 

inspiring to all campers. 48 p. $1.75 

♦DENOTES A CANADIAN BOOK. 


LIBRARY SERVICE 

ARE YOU LOOKING FOR BOOKS ON PARTICULAR TOPICS? - WRITE US - 
WE SHALL TRY TO FIND THEM - THEN LET YOU KNOW THEN SEND YOU THE ONES YOU WANT 


MAIL TO: C.C.A. PUBLICATIONS 
102 EGLINTON AVE. E. 
SUITE 203 

TORONTO, ONT. M4P1E1 

ORDER BLANK 

Pre-paid orders only please 

POSTAGE PAID 


Name:_ 

Address: 

City: _ 

Province: 


Postal 

Code: 


PRINT 


QUANTITY 

DESIRED 

TITLE OR DESCRIPTION 

PRICE EACH 

TOTAL 


























2 





















A Message from the President 



Message du President 



Madame Editor — this is my mad month! Instead of all the nice 
things I'm supposed to say, let me have the chance to 'sound off'. 
I'm frustrated, discouraged and just plain mad! 

I'm frustrated by exhorbitant rising costs, and the frustration is 
compounded because / see and read about young people AND 
adults who are motivated by a 'gimme, gimme' philosophy. / am 
thoroughly discouraged with some of the phony make-work pro¬ 
grams of certain Governments — programmes which allow some 
incompetent teenagers to operate Camps on their own, at salaries 
which Camps are unable to afford. As an Independent Camp 
Director / question whether or not / can or want to continue to 
suffer as a result of the bungling, broke, befuddled Unemployment 
Insurance Commission; for not only do / and my Staff have to pay 
more — we have to dig deeper to support those who 'don't feel 
like working'. 

Since the beginning of the Century, Camps have been in the field 
of Outdoor Education. Now some outsiders have found a label . . . 
and alas, they say there's something bright in the skies — like a 
mighty comet — a revelation! School Boards and teachers see the 
benefit of an educational experience in the out-of-doors, and now 
who's taking the back seat? That's right, the Camp Directors and 
Staff! And that's our fault! We let Camps sit idle, complain about 
high costs, and watch School Boards build elaborate, beautiful 
Outdoor Education Centres. When are we going to get together? 

As I get more and more involved in Volunteer Organizations, / 
become more and more discouraged with a certain kind of volun¬ 
teer . . . the one who says, "I'll do it" — and he doesn't! / am 
(this month) completely dejected by an attitude which some say is 
an inherent quality of Canadians — namely criticising. It seems to 
me that as soon as a person becomes the leader of his Organization, 
Community, Province or Country, we start to criticize. Publicly 
and privately we subject our Leaders to rumour, gossip, innuendoes, 
barbs. We try to find something wrong. We condemn them, and 
offer our criticism instead of support! It would seem to me that 
many of these people who are prepared to give their time and 
experience to help their fellow man, soon get to that questioning 
point when they say, "What the hell — it's not worth it!" And / 
don't blame them. 

And I'm particularly frustrated by the philosophy of "The 
Committee" . . . the philosophy which says, "Let's form a com¬ 
mittee, and we'll talk about what we should be doing. We'll talk 
for hours and hours and hours, and months and months and 
months". With yawns, phony smiles and everyone having the chance 
to say the same thing in a hundred different ways, we eventually 
get something done. But how much more could have been done in 
the Community, in the Organization or in the Camp if people only 
talked when they had something to say! 

Madame Editor ... I want to go back to Camp! Please let the 
summer come quickly, because when / see children singing and 
laughing and playing together and resolving disagreements, and 
achieving and learning to live with each other, / can't possibly get 
mad. And when / see a young Counsellor guiding, leading, laughing 
with and holding a child, there isn't any room left in my heart for 
frustration and discouragement. When / see people living and work¬ 
ing together, unmindful of all the petty things which upset me in 
January or February, / become revitalized . . . and / can say to 
myself, "It's really worth it. Thank God I'm alive arid living — 
with kids and young people!" 


Madame la Redactrice — en voila un mois fou! Au lieu de dire des 
choses bien gentilles, permettez-moi de donner libre cours a ma 
colere. Je suis degoute, decourage et plus que furieux! 

Les prix qui augmentent toujours me vexent — et de plus je 
suis vexe d'entendre parler et de meme rencontrer des jeunes gens 
ET des adultes qui ne veulent que recevoir tout a titre gratuit, sans 
travail. Je suis decourage a voir ces drdles de programmes de travail, 
proclames par certains gouvernements, permettant a des jeunes 
incompetents d'etre prepose a des camps et a des salaires que les 
Camps d'ete ne peuvent payer. Comme Directeur de Camp ^de¬ 
pendant, je me demande si je peux, ou si je veux, continuer de 
souffrir a cause de la politique maladresse, miserable et ruineuse de 
la Commission d'Assurance Chomage — car non-seulement cela nous 
coute-t-il plus cher, a mon personnel ainsi qu'a moi-meme, nous 
devons nous efforcer a supporter ceux qui n'ont simplement pas 
envie de travailler. 

Depuis le debut du siecle les Camps ont servi I'education au 
plein air. Et voila qu'actuellement les laiques ont eu une idee — 
c'est une revelation comme un comete aux cieuxl Les commissions 
scholaires et les professeurs se rendent compte des avantages de 
I'experience educationelle au plein air et a present — qui est refoule? 
Oui, vous le doutez bien. Ce sont les directeurs de camps et leur 
personnel. Et cela est bien notre faute! Nous avons laisse des camps 
rester inusites, nous plaignant des frais trop eleves, pendant que les 
commissions scholaires s'empressaient de creer des centres d'educa- 
tion en plein air, tres soignes et luxueux. Quand pourrons-nous 
finalement unir nos forces? 

Plus je m'occupe des organisations benevoles, plus je suis de¬ 
courage a la rencontre de certains volontaires — qui vous disent 
"je m'en occupe" — et ne s'en occupent point. Je suis aussi tres 
deprime par I'attitude — etant, parait-il, la nature des canadiens — 
qui veut critiquer tout et tous. Du moment que quelqu'un devient 
chef de son organisation, de son groupe, de la province ou du pays, 
nous nous mettons a critiquer, a le blamer. Publiquement ainsi 
qu'entre nous, les rumeurs, les commerages et les insinuations n'en 
finissent plus; on tache de trouver quelquechose de mauvais. On les 
condamne, au lieu de les soutenir. II me semble que ces personnes, 
qui donnent leur temps et leur experience a leurs confreres, arrive- 
ront bientot a se demander si cela vaut bien la peine. Et je crois 
qu'ils ont raison. 

Et je suis surtout lasse de I'attitude du "Comite" — cette atti¬ 
tude qui veut qu'on forme un groupe, pour parler des choses qu'on 
devrait faire. On parle pendant des heures et des heures, et des 
mois et des mois. Tout en bail I ant et en souriant on repete la 
meme chose de cent fapons differentes, et finalement on arrive a 
accomplir quelquechose. Mais combien de plus aurait pu etre 
accompli, communautairement, dans I'organisation ou au Camps, si 
les gens ne parlaient que lorsqu'ils avaient quelquechose a dire! 

Madame la redactrice! J'aimerais retourner au Camp! Voulez- 
vous laisser arriver I'ete bientot, car lorsque je vois des enfants qui 
chantent et rient et qui jouent ensemble, s'entendant les-uns-avec- 
les-autres, je ne suis plus fache. Et lorsque je vois un jeune moniteur 
qui guide et conduit un enfant a la main, en chantant — il n'y a plus 
d'amertume dans mon coeur. Et quand je vois des gens qui vivent 
et travaillent et s'entendent bien, sans tenir compte des mesquineries 
qui m'agacent en janvier et en fevrier — je resens de nouveau la 
joie-de-vivre . . . et j'arrive a me dire — "s'en vaut bien la peine. 
Grace au ciel,. je suis au monde et vivant — avec des enfants et 
des jeunes!" 


3 


A.O. WHITE SUPPLY(1963) LTD. 

Toronto 366-6536 


Suppliers of best Kitchen and Dining Room 
Equipment for Camps. 

Stoves • Dishes • Cutlery • Pots & Pans 
Used Equipment 


Visit our NEW, big showroom at: 318 Queen Street West (1 block east of Spadina) 

NO PARKING RESTRICTIONS 


MUSKOKA LAUNDRY & DRY CLEANERS LTD. 

LAUNDRY SERVICE FOR CHILDREN'S SUMMER CAMPS 

ESTABLISHED SINCE 1955 

75 WELLINGTON STREET, BRACEBRIDGE, ONTARIO 

645-2229 


PROCESSED MEATS PORTION CUTS 

FREEZER ORDERS BONELESS PREPARATION 

COLD CUTS FROZEN FISH 

WE PROCESS, CURE AND SMOKE 
ALL OUR MEATS 
ON THE PREMISES 

WE DEAL ONLY IN A-1 RED BRAND BEEF 
"NEVER A SUBSTITUTE" 



Pickering-Ajax Custom Butchers 

(FORMERLY MADILL & FOSSEY) 

68 KINGSTON ROAD 
PICKERING, ONTARIO 

(416) 942-1601 

WEEKLY CAMP DELIVERY 


KAMP PACK 
IN CANADA! 

The finest Meals 
for 

“Trail Campers” 

Komp Pack Cook-Out Foods 
packed in our own Govern¬ 
ment inspected plant. 

Choose from 36 light, tasty 
and easy-to-Fix KAMP PACK 
items. Flavor sealed foil 
packages satisfies 4 or 8 
outdoor appetites. 



FOR COOK OUTS 
CAMPING OUT 
HUNTING FISHING TRIPS 
Nothing to Add but Water 
No Refrigeration Necessary 


Write for information to 


SELECT FOOD PRODUCTS LTD. 

KAMP PACK DIVISION 

120 SUNRISE AVENUE - TORONTO, ONT. M4A 1B4 
Telephone: 759-9316 


4 










CANADA’S LEADING MANUFACTURER AND 
DISTRIBUTOR OF SANITATION PRODUCTS 


1BR111 


CLEANING MAINTENANCE 



EH Automatic Floor Scrubber-Vacuum 
EH Floor Machine Brushes & Accessories 
EH Germicidal Floor Detergents 
EH Floor Sealers 
EH Wax Remover 

EH Littervacs to 'clean up’ large areas 
EH All purpose Floor Absorbents 
EH Indoor-Outdoor Carpeting 
EH Housekeepers Utility Carts & Accessories 
EH Ice Melting Pellets 
EH Carpet Cleaning Equipment 


WASHROOM PRODUCTS 


EH Liquid Toilet Soaps 

EH Soap Dispensers 

EH B.M.D. Drain Cleaner 

EH Self-Closing Waste Receptacles 

EH Disinfectants 

EH Toilet Bowl Cleaner 

EH Sand Urns for Cigarettes etc. 

EH Electric Water Coolers 
EH Electric Foggers and Sprayers 
EH Powdered Toilet Soaps 


EH Floor Scrubbers & Polishers 
EH Floor Cleaning Compounds 
EH Liquid Floor Waxes 
EH Polymer Floor Finishes 
EHSweeping Compounds 
EH Industrial Vacuum Cleaners 
EH Mopping Equipment 
□ Vinyl & Rubber Matting 
EH Mops, Brooms, Pails, Dust Pans 
EH Sponges, Cleaning Pads, Squeegees 
EH Rug & Upholstery Cleaners 



EH Washroom Air Fresheners 
EH Shower Slippers & Bath Mats 
EH Sanitary Napkins - Vending Machines 
EH Napkin Disposal Receptacles 
H Urinal Deodorizers & Screens 
EHOzium Sanitizing Air Spray & Ozimatics 
EH Insecticides, Insect-o-Strip 
EH Water Cup Dispensers 
EH Dr.Brook Life-Saving Airway 



INDUSTRIAL PAPER AND 
DISPOSABLES PRODUCTS 


I I Paper Place Mats 
EH Paper Doilies 
EH Beverage Coasters 
EH Hot Drink Cups 
EH Paper Plates 

□ Linenized Paper Caps - adjustable to size 
EH Toilet Tissue 

EH Dish Washing Detergents & Dispensers 
EH Odourless Germicides & Bactericides 
EH Toilet Paper Holders 


EH Embossed Paper Tray Covers 
EH Serviettes - Embossed & Coloured 
EH Paper Water Cups 
EH Paper Towel Dispensers 
EH Paper Towels 
EH Toilet Seat Covers 
EH Paper Food Containers 
EH Dish De-Staining Compound (Plastic 
and China) 



woo 



'Sanitation for the Nation' 

Regional Headquarters: TORONTO • MONTREAL • VANCOUVER • CALGARY • DARTMOUTH 50 Branches across Canada 


5 






















A case for “PARTICIPATIVE” CAMPING 


It seems to me there are two styles 
of resident camping, a more traditional 
style in which the benefits of good 
camp program are stressed and a more 
“participative” style in which program 
is seen as a tool to help the participant 
learn more about himself and become 
challenged to develop his personality 
in a number of ways. The difference 
seems to be in the extent to which 
program is seen as a goal or as a tool 
to help other goals be reached and in 
the extent to which “camper partici¬ 
pation” is seen as a learning tool. 

I’m sure most camps stress a theme 
or purpose which is of a personal 
development nature. Are we aware of 
the implications of such goals? Do we 
understand the learning concepts in¬ 
volved in helping people change their 
behaviour? How many of our camps 
or programs are evaluated on the extent 
(or the effort made) to which such 
growth has been achieved versus evalua¬ 
tion based on number of participants, 
degree of fun (alone), etc.? For that 
matter, do criteria exist in our evalua¬ 
tion processes to measure such per¬ 
sonal development? 

It seems to me that if our goal is to 
help people learn or change their be¬ 
haviour in positive ways then the 
resident camp setting is one of the 
potentially most effective tools to 
carry out such aims. Here, ideally, the 
factor of capable leadership combines 
with that of a prolonged period of 
time to produce an environment with 
great potential to promote change and 
personal growth. If this goal cannot be 
achieved at a resident camp, can it be 
achieved in any other youth program 
without the advantages of a total living 
environment and the time necessary to 
encourage self examination and 
change? 

To be successful in developing such 
a program a number of factors must be 
considered. We must understand the 
concepts involved. We must understand 
how people learn — that is, change 
their behaviour — and how learning 
can be encouraged through self exami¬ 
nation, etc. We must provide an 
environment or learning climate in 


by A1 Knox 

Former Director, Camp Wanakita 


which people feel comfortable in try¬ 
ing out new behaviours. If we under¬ 
stand that we cannot change people, 
that they must change themselves, then 
we must encourage them to become 
involved in a process that will help 
them discover a need for change, a 
goal(s) to strive for and a means of 
achieving it. 

Involvement is the key. If we want 
people to learn to make responsible 
decisions we must provide them oppor¬ 
tunities to make decisions and then 
help them evaluate the results of their 
decisions. If we want them to learn the 
concept of shared leadership — that 
leadership is a set of functions that 
enables a task to be achieved and that 
all members of a group can contribute 
to the accomplishment of the task; 
that the leadership can be shared, that 
a person who normally sees himself as 
a follower can come to realize that he 
has some leadership skills which can be 
developed - then we must encourage 
them to experience leadership roles, 
etc. 

At the same time, we must be aware 
of the risks involved. More often than 
not, learning involves a period of frus¬ 
tration. It is a struggle to learn new 
behaviours. We must help our partici¬ 
pants work through this struggle suc¬ 
cessfully. The struggle will be seen as 
worthwhile if the result is positive. 
Effective evaluation is necessary to 
help the participant become aware of 
the process involved and become 
aware that signs of success can be as 
important a step as reaching the final 
goal. 

Inappropriate decisions will be 
made. We must help our participants 
learn through their mistakes. If we 
take this opportunity away from them 
through pre-planning then we lose an 
effective learning tool. Two sayings 
come to mind, “There are no such 
tilings as problems, only opportunities 
for learning”, and, “If you’re not 
making mistakes, you’re not doing 
anything”; perhaps they contain an 
ounce of insight. 

If we believe in the endeavour 
described above, our question at camp 


is how can we minimize the risks and 
maximize the learning environment. 
Hopefully, through good camp program 
we can make learning enjoyable. The 
camp staff must understand and be 
committed to these principles. They 
must be capable of working through 
the process and they must be effective 
evaluators. They must be self motiva¬ 
ted and they must be able to share 
their own leadership to accomplish the 
stated goals. The key to success lies in 
the selection and training of such a 
staff. The goals I trust are unassailable. 

If you accept the premise of parti¬ 
cipative camping, the hardest factor 
lies ahead, implementing the concepts. 

I have been working on it for several 
years and I have a long way yet to go. 
If your staff becomes supportive of 
this approach, I’m sure you will develop 
many creative approaches to partici¬ 
pative programming but here are a few 
ideas that you might like to try which 
we, at Camp Wanakita, have had some 
degree of success with: 

1) Camper Councils - We simply invite 
any interested camper to join in a 
series of meetings to plan a camp 
special event (ora section program). 
Don’t sell the junior campers short. 
You will find that they have the 
creative ideas - not being hindered 
by tradition, previous experience, 
etc. - and the seniors will be most 
helpful when it comes to planning 
details and carrying the program 
out. If you want to be really daring, 
let them struggle with the develop¬ 
ment of their own leadership and 
operating structure. This can be a 
frustrating experience but a truly 
rewarding one. 

2) A Phase System - This past summer 
our Junior Section operated on a 
3 phase system designed to help 
campers and staff move together 
into a participative style of operat¬ 
ing. 

(a) the first several days’ program 
is planned by counsellors or on 
a Section basis 

(b) next, campers and counsellors 
plan together based on camper 
ideas 


6 


Participative Camping continued 

(c) finally, campers plan as a group 
with the counsellor assuming a 
truly advisory role. 

3) Decentralized Camping - Our Seni¬ 
ors operate to a large degree on a 
cabin-centred basis, each cabin act¬ 
ing as a unit. Counsellors are chal¬ 
lenged to be “advisors” vs. leaders 
thereby helping the group develop 
its own leadership. Early in the 
camp period the total section meets 
to discuss this style of operation, 
get to know each other and develop 
program ideas out of “buzz” ses¬ 
sions, etc. 

If you want to pursue the concept 
of participative camping further I 
recommend that you read Hedley G. 
Dimock’s address to the Canadian 
Camping Association meeting (March 
2-4, 1967), “Canadian Camping — Its 
Resistance to Change”. Hedley dis¬ 
cusses these concepts in depth from 
the perspectives of 1) camper develop¬ 
ment and 2) the function and influence 
of the camp director. 

Good luck in your endeavours! 




ALL CAMPER'S CLOTHING AND 
BELONGINGS 

should be marked for easy identification 
and to avoid loss. 

CAMP LINEN AND EQUIPMENT, TOO, 
should be marked to avoid confusion 
and loss. 

NAMES OR NUMBERS CAN BE 
SUPPLIED. 

Order CASH'S NAME TAPES from 
department stores and other dealers — 
or direct from 

CASH'S 

CANADA LABELS LIMITED 

BOX 1 239, PETERBOROUGH, 
ONTARIO K9J 7H5 

PRINTED NAME PRICES 

6 doz. $2.30 9 doz. $2.60 

12 doz. $2.80 24 doz. $3.95 

No C.O.D.s. Please mail cheque or 
money order. 

(Ontario Residents add 7% retail sales tax) 



My wife and I were slumped at the kitchen table early on a Saturday morning 
listening with critical ears to my CBC radio broadcast concerning snowy owls 
when I looked out the window and announced calmly, “There goes one now”. 

Sure enough, a snowy owl glided silently past our tenth floor apartment 
window as though it had received its cue from the radio program. It didn’t move 
its wings all the time it was in sight but in an area dominated by apartment build¬ 
ings and updrafts, it flashed along at an impressive speed. 

In the office of the provincial Director of Wildlife, I sat sipping coffee while 
tossing questions about the Lemming situation in the Arctic and the sudden 
appearance of snowy owls when I had another occasion to announce “There goes 
one now”. Pigeons circled wildly about the little park behind the parliament 
buildings while a snowy owl circled menacingly above them. 

Once every half dozen or so years, we are treated to a visit by one of the most 
impressive members of the owl family “Nyctea scandiaca ” These visits coincide 
with the depletion of the Lemming which results from overpopulation which 
leads to overwhelming predation, starvation and disease. With a scarcity of Lem¬ 
ming, the Snowy owl wanders south plucking off the odd ptarmigan, weasel, duck, 
rabbit, pigeon or careless crow. 

While out looking for a winter crow roost which 1 knew was being used by 
four or five thousand birds, 1 spotted from a considerable distance, a splotch of 
white in an otherwise black hardwood stand. It could have been a mound of snow 
topping a squirrel, hawk or crow nest but one look through the binoculars proved 
it to be a huge snowy owl probably measuring the maximum length of 27 inches. 

While watching the owl, I noticed a small flock of crows no doubt following 
one of the many flyway spokes leading back to the roost hub. They spotted the 
owl, quickened their pace, rose high above the forest and began squawking, 
diving and swirling about the owl. More crows answered the call to battle and the 
enraged attackers swooped closer and closer to their nocturnal tormentor. 

What the crows failed to realize was that unlike the majority of owls which are 
nocturnal, the Snowy Owl hunts in unbroken daylight throughout the summer 
months in its Arctic homeland. It is not at all at a disadvantage during daylight 
hours. 

Suddenly, the owl jumped straight in the air, thrust its Wilkinson Sword-like 
talons out to meet an attacking crow and from where I stood, the scene exploded 
in a shower of black feathers. 

With its prize clutched firmly in its talons, the snowy owl drifted away on 
wings spanning five feet and although the crows maintained their pestering, the 
attack had lost its momentum. 

On a frozen hillock of the treeless Arctic, five to eight grainy white eggs are 
incubated in a shallow depression by the female while the smaller male stands 
guard on a nearby vantage point. Those owlets which stray from the nest soon 
become the prey of foxes, jaegars or inclement weather. 

Although the birds grow to be quite large in appearance, their bodies are quite 
small weighing only two to three pounds. Thick layers of heavy white feathers 
trap body, warmth, repel water and provide perfect camouflage for this silent 
raptor of Canada’s hinterlands. 


7 











'tyawi jo6 a. cacuuetto* 
STARTS NOW! 


by Viiu Kanep 

Camp Wapomeo 


WANTED — Cabin counsellor for Camp. Anyone, anywhere for 
summer 1974. Must be willing to begin NOW. 


Why now? It is only mid-winter! Very true. But, if you 
and your campers are going to have a rewarding summer, 
this is the time to start making your preparations. 

Because your campers are still unknown quantities, you 
are right in assuming you can’t do specific things with and 
for your youngsters, but you can accomplish a great deal 
with your own self, your ideas, your desires, your values, 
your experiences, and your objectives. 

It doesn’t matter what camp you will attend or whether 
your group will be large, of different ages, or co-educational. 
As a counsellor you must realize that by signing your con¬ 
tract you have accepted one of the most responsible, 
demanding, yet enjoyable positions in camping. You will 
yourself grow in many varied ways as you help your camp¬ 
ers to grow in their way. All of a sudden your personal 
desires will have to take second place to those of your 
cabin group. So often, unfortunately, we see counsellors 
fall by the wayside because they are not able to give 
enough of themselves to their youngsters. Yes, camp is for 
campers! Give yourself a chance and you can enjoy one of 
the best summers of your life. 

So often, inexperienced counsellors feel they should 
carry out psychological experiments with their cabin group, 
or use each camper as a case study for a sociological report. 
They try to analyze or psychoanalyze everyone and every 
action. In my opinion this is not summer camp counselling. 

Some of the best counsellors with whom I have worked 
have been just plain, down-to-earth human beings trying to 
be their natural selves all the time. Sure they are experts in 
human relations — experts in just plain concern for others. 
They are deep thinkers — the kind that weigh all angles 
before they act. They are self-motivated individuals in that 
they can act on their own without having to be pushed and 
guided constantly by others. They are humans who possess 
that wonderful quality called common sense. Above all, 
though, they are concerned — concerned for their campers, 
for their camp, and for the out-of-doors in general. 

Getting Prepared: 

If you will be a first-time counsellor at a camp, your home¬ 
work is cut out for you. It is now that you should get in 
touch with as many people as possible who can give you 
specific information regarding the camp’s philosophy, its 
aims, its physical layout, its routines. In most cases sessions 
with the camp director and/or senior personnel are most 


beneficial. Counsellors who are familiar with the setting 
are fortunate because they can overlook this first orienta¬ 
tion step. From here on in, however, the preparations are 
the same for both types of individuals. 

It will be a difficult task getting to know yourself and 
for you to realize how you will and should react in certain 
situations. Some of your concerns should be: 
ENTHUSIASM: Are you an energetic, on-the-go individual- 
one who dislikes sitting around doing nothing? Is your 
enthusiasm sincere enough to enable you to display it all 
the time? A keen, enthusiastic counsellor is contagious! 
Such a person will motivate the campers to look, ask, see, 
try, and do. 

FACIAL EXPRESSIONS: Are you a natural frowner, or do 
you have a constant natural smile? Are you able to express 
joy and happiness in called-for situations? Are you able to 
cover up emotional concerns so that your cabin group will 
not be burdened by your problems? 

SELF DISCIPLINE: How would you rate yourself here? 
So often many of us fall short of our intentions. It is so 
easy to rationalize and procrastinate, and thus to drift aim¬ 
lessly. For instance — you find it hard to get going in the 
morning, but is this a fair reason to have your campers miss 
out on an early morning paddle in the mist? 

DISCIPLINE: That extremely complex topic! Have you 
thought what your feeling is on this subject? Are you of 
the strict school or the permissive one? Do you realize that 
no matter what your philosophy is, you must have the 
ability to say “NO”. Saying “YES” to everything does not 
automatically make you a good counsellor. All campers like 
to be guided. They find it is easier to have others set their 
limits rather than do it themselves. 

COMMUNICATION: Are you capable of sharing ideas with 
others ... be it with your camp director, your peer group 
or the campers? The development of such a rapport with 
your campers, your fellow counsellors, your section heads, 
your camp director is a “must”. Remember that this pro¬ 
cess might entail that unique ability to listen and to hear, 
to discuss and explain, and then perhaps to compromise. 

Being Prepared: 

Once you have sorted out your own feelings, ideas, and 
reactions, there are some specific preparations that you 
can make. For many of these, however, knowledge of the 
camper regarding age, sex and interests is essential. 


8 





You, as a counsellor, should always have a collection of 
appropriate stories on hand. Bedtime stories can often pro¬ 
vide a wonderful climax to an eventful day. Sometimes, 
during the rainy spells, story hours can be very enjoyable. 
Acting out stories or plays will give the campers the chance 
to show their imagination and talents. The public libraries 
are a good source of supply in this area. 

Songs always play a big part in any camp. Every staff 
member should be equipped with a long list of favourites. 
The traditional songs have a distinct place but new songs 
tend to add a great deal of spirit to a cabin group, a section 
and to the whole camp. The younger campers are thrilled 
with action songs, so try to learn as many as possible. 
Singing during your campfires, after dinner, and on hikes is 
fun! If you can play an instrument, get it in good condition 
and practise those favourite tunes. There is, indeed, truth in 
the statement ... a singing camp is a happy camp. 

As a counsellor you will often need ideas to fill gaps in 
the daily programme. A ready knowledge of group games 
can be so handy games for older campers, younger cam¬ 
pers, small or large groups; games that are active or quiet - 
all should be found in the repertoire of a concerned coun¬ 
sellor. Party games books can be invaluable here. 

The aforementioned activities and ideas should form a 
good supply of resource material. In my opinion, however, 
the greatest emphasis in preparing for the summer is in the 
realm of understanding the surroundings - the environment, 
the setting, the campsite. Each counsellor should know the 
area well enough to be able to plan trips, excursions, 
paddles, hikes and walks all around the camp area. So often 
there are points of interest and areas of historical impor¬ 
tance that should be shared with everyone who spends 
some time in that vicinity. 

Another area that requires emphasis and understanding 
is in the nature around us. Research on topics such as trees, 
birds, flowers, minerals and animals characteristic to the 
camp’s locale, will give you and your campers a better 
understanding and, therefore, a greater appreciation of 
Life. In addition, will you be able to answer those many 
puzzling questions regarding our weather — where does 


rain come from? what is a rainbow? why are clouds differ¬ 
ent? what are thunder and lightning? Can you answer 
these? All of these phenomena become a definite part of a 
camper’s stay in the out-of-doors. The night also opens up 
a totally new world. Are you familiar with the strange 
sounds that can be heard? Do you recognize stars? can you 
point out different constellations? The young inquisitive 
mind is intrigued by the revelations. 

So far I have not mentioned anything about the physical 
skills that a counsellor should have. I tend to take for 
granted that he or she will work at improving them continu¬ 
ally. There is nothing more limiting to a cabin group than 
to have a counsellor who is unsafe on water, unable to 
paddle or sail, or dislikes walking. Most communities offer 
water safety programmes that will be of great value to the 
inexperienced, or will requalify the previously qualified 
individual. Confidence in your physical skills will set you 
more at ease, so that you will derive double the enjoyment 
from your experience. 

If you are still interested in applying for that initial 
'wanted ad’, you have made it! You, who are ready to help 
yourself, will help the campers to attain their goals and 
thus the summer should be a great success, all things being 
equal. 

Editor’s Note: The following is a list of some recommended books 
for reading before camp opens: 

“The Camp Counsellor's Book'' - North way & Lowes (Longmans 
Canada Ltd.) 

"Summer Magic" - Kenneth & Susan Webb (Association Press) 
"Lights from a Thousand Campfires" - Kenneth B. Webb (Associa¬ 
tion Press) 

"Camp Waterfront Programs and Management" - Richard H. 
Pohndorf (Association Press) 

"Laughter in the Front Hall" — Mary L. Northway (Longmans 
Canada Ltd.) 

"Inspirational Poetry for Camp and Youth Groups" - H. Jean 
Berger (Burgess Publishing Co.) 

"The Camp Program Book" - Catherine Hammet (Association 
Press) 

"The Call of Algonquin" — Mary G. Hamilton (Ryerson Press, 
Toronto) 

"Talks to Counsellors" - Dimock and Statten (Association Press) 
Ontario Camping Association Cpnference Digests or Reports. 



9 



THE BUYER’S GUIDE 


These companies have shown their support for camping by exhibiting at the 1974 O.C.A. Conference, 

Ryerson Polytechnical Institute, Toronto. 


M. BLACK WIPING PRODUCTS LTD. 

Distributors of disposables for food services 
111 St. Regis Crescent, Downsview, Ontario 
(416) 638-1335 
Ian Shendale, Vice-President 


MARSAN FOODS LIMITED 

A complete frozen convenience food system 
692 Richmond Street West, Toronto, Ontario 
(416) 863-9966 
Jim Lee, Sales Manager 


CANADIAN KEYES FIBRE CO. LTD. 

Disposable plates and bowls 
30 Iron Street, Rexdale, Ontario 
(416) 249-2207 

Peter H. Leicher, Ont. Food Service Sales Manager 

CHESTNUT CANOE COMPANY LTD. 

Canoes, boats, snowshoes and accessories 
Fredericton, New Brunswick 
(506) 454-4479 

G. W. Birch, General Manager 

CRESTEX LIMITED 

Shirts and crests 

68 Bioadview Avenue, Toronto, Ontario 
(416) 461-0731 

H. Miwa, Camping Sales 


JOHN F. MARSHALL & CO. LTD. 

Hiking and tripping equipment, Freeze Dry foods 
43 Victoria Street, Toronto, Ontario 
(416) 366-4810 
John Marshall 

McKAGUE CHEMICAL CO. LTD. 

Dishwashing, laundry and housekeeping chemicals 
100 Midwest Road, Scarborough, Ontario 
(416) 751-1121 

Noel Davies, General Sales Manager 

NATIONAL GROCERS CO. LTD. 

Groceries, tripping, tuck produce and frozen food 
92 Barrie Road, Orillia, Ontario 
(705) 326-3591 
Merv. MacDonald 


GIBBONS FOODS LTD. 

"The best in quality foods" 

49 Advance Road, Toronto, Ontario 

(416) 239-1421 

Roy Currie, Camping Sales 

S. GUMPERT CO. OF CANADA LTD. 

Specialty foods - camps and backpack ing 
31 Brock Avenue, Toronto, Ontario 
(416) 531-5758 
C.E. Glithero, Camping Sales 

HARBUTT'S PLASTICINE (CANADA) LTD. 

Genuine plasticine modelling material, crayons, chalk 

720 Kipling Avenue, Toronto, Ontario 

(416) 251 4436 

E.C Morris, Camping Sales 

HICKESON-LANGS SUPPLY CO. LTD. 

Distributors of fine foods 

103 Orfus Road, Toronto, Ontario 

(416) 789 4101 

E.W. Hickeson, Camping Sales 

INSTITUTIONAL FOOD SUPPLY (EASTERN) LTD. 

Soup bases, juices, puddings, mixes, fruits 
P.O. Box 242, Thornhill, Ontario 
(416) 625-5322 
R. Lavereau, Sales Supervisor 

KELLOGG-SALADA 

Your host for convenience food products 
1315 Finch Avenue West, Downsview, Ontario 
(416) 636 9296 

C.H. "Bud” Patmore, Camping Sales 

KRAFT FOODS LIMITED 

Complete line of quality food service products 
62 Bartor Road, Weston, Ontario 
(416) 741-8450 

LEWISCRAFT 

Arts, crafts and needlework 

284 King Street West, Toronto, Ontario 

(416) 363-5206 

C. Barry Willis, V-P Marketing and Sales 
MAITRE'D SERVICE FOODS 
(Division of General Foods) 

Cold beverages, hot beverages, desserts 
344 Consumers' Road, Willowdale, Ontario 
(416) 491 6932 

Tony Riley, District Sales Manager 


P.J.B. MARKETING AND SALES LIMITED 

Cakes, entrees, vegetables, desserts, mixes 
269 East Avenue, West Hill P.O., Ontario 
(416) 282-8154 
P.J. Byrne, President 

THE QUAKER OATS COMPANY LTD. 

Mixes, frozen waffles, biscuits and cereals 
Quaker Park, Peterborough, Ontario 
(705) 743-6330 

T.G.B. Lloyd, Sales Representative 

SANGSARA 

Whole, natural and organic foods, wholesale and retail 
682 George Street, Peterborough, Ontario 
(705) 745-3674 
Vin Morris, Camping Sales 

SCHOOL UNIFORMS (CANADA) LIMITED 

Wholesale supplier of athletic wear and cresting 
5200 Dixie Road, Mississauga, Ontario 
(416) 625-9161 

Frank Reynolds, Sales Representative 

SCOTT'S PERMA STORAGE FOODS LTD. 

Dehydrated camp food in bulk 

P.O. Box 121,60 York Street, Aylmer, Ontario 

(519) 773-2462 

Milton Scott, President 

SIGNET FOOD PRODUCTS INC. (Formerly Amilar) 

Total food purchasing service 
5170 Dixie Road, Mississauga, Ontario 
(416) 625-9421 
G.H. Williams, Camping Sales 

STAFFORD FOODS LIMITED 

A complete range of food products 
37 Hanna Avenue, Toronto, Ontario 
(416) 366-8021 

TANDY LEATHER COMPANY OF CANADA LTD. 

Complete line of leather and craft supplies 
P.O. Box 13000, Barrie, Ontario 
(705) 361-1219 

Allan Eyers, Eastern Area Manager 
Ray Collins, Western Area Manager 

VOYAGEUR CANOE COMPANY LIMITED 

Canoes, paddles, lifevests and a 25 foot canoe 
King Street, Millbrook, Ontario 
(705) 932-2131 


Glenn A. Fall is. Managing Director 

An advertising supplement sponsored by O.C.A. 















A STRANGE HAPPENING 


It happened, they tell us, a long time ago, but it could 
have been yesterday. In a country torn by war, soldiers as 
peace-keepers or soldiers in rebellion became familiar sights 
and the people of the villages were never quite sure which 
was which. Food was scarce and life was hard. Worst of all, 
people found it very difficult to trust others, particularly 
strangers. 

To such a village, two soldiers, separated from their com¬ 
pany, came as strangers, footsore and weary. “We are 
hungry,” they said. “We haven’t eaten for two days and are 
very tired. Will someone give us something to eat?” But the 
villagers replied, “Food! we haven’t enough for ourselves. 
None of us has had a good meal for several days. We haven’t 
anything to spare for strangers.” “Well, if that is so,” one of 
the soldiers said, “we’ll have to make some stone soup for 
you.” “Stone soup,” they gasped, “what in the world is 
stone soup?” “If you’ll help us, we’ll show you,” said the 
soldiers. It was agreed. 

“First, we will have to find a big iron kettle.” A villager 
knew where there was one and a big one soon appeared. 
“Now for a fire, where can we get wood?” Soon the wood 
appeared. “Now we’ll need water to put in the pot.” That 
was soon provided and the fire lighted. “Now we’ll need a 
few nice clean stones to put in the water.” Some of these 
were carefully chosen and put into the pot. “A little salt 
and pepper would help to make it tastier, if only some were 
available,” suggested one of the soldiers. A villager respon¬ 
ded and said, “At least I can spare some of that.” “If only 
there were a cabbage that could be added,” said the other 
soldier. “Oh, I can get a cabbage,” said another villager. By 
this time, the folk of the village were becoming enthusiastic, 
and when onions and carrots were mentioned, they were 
found. Some even brought some beef, until everything that 
makes soup both smell and taste good had been included. 
And soup never tasted better to any of them than it did 
that day as they shared their stone soup together. 

No one seemed to know what the stones added to make 
it so tasty. Everyone agreed, however, that something im¬ 
portant had happened to them that day. More than their 
hungry bodies were fed. 

It might have been like a day in camp. They learned 
that there is something more important than what happens 
to our bodies and our appetites. In the excitement of shar¬ 
ing together in a new discovery, everyone doing what he 
could do, new relationships developed in which mistrust 
was forgotten, and the joy of caring and love for one 
another made the happening of that day one of the great 
learning experiences of their lives. 

-Clarence Ferguson 


Editor's Note: It is hoped that this column will be a regular 
item in “Canadian CampingThe purpose of it is to print 
some story, poem, inspirational thought, etc. which can be 
read around the campfire, in chapel, morning prayers or in 
silent contemplation. If you have some writings you would 
like to share with our readers, please forward 
them to the Editor. 


An adventure in 
eating! 

TRY OUR RANGE OF 

freeze dried meats 
freeze dried fruits 
freeze dried vegetables 
freeze dried main dishes etc. 

new instant dinners 

FREEZE-DRY FOODS LIMITED 

579 Speers Road 
Oakville, Ontario, Canada 

(416)844-1471 (416)925-3168 


YOUNG & BIGGIN REAL ESTATE LTD. 


is pleased to announce the appointment of 



as Specialist in Vacation Properties 
Camps • Cottages • Resorts 


If you are considering purchasing or selling, Bert, who has 
had many years of successful experience owning and operating 
Camps, would be pleased to assist you. 


TORONTO 

(416) 752-6070 


HUNTSVILLE 

(705) 635-2728 



11 







EARTH DAY 



by Arnold R. Cohen 

Former Director, B'nai B’rith Resident Camp, Winnipeg 


The Y.M.II.A. B’nai B'rith Camp is located on an island 
in Lake of the Woods near Kenora, Ontario. The camp 
serves 120 boys and girls age 9 to 16 in 3 sessions of two 
weeks duration during July and August. Last summer we 
had an “Earth Day” program which was such an outstand¬ 
ing success that I would like to share it with other camps. 

Before camp began, meetings with senior camp staff 
were held to assist in developing new program ideas. It 
seemed that one area we always discussed with campers 
was an appreciation and care of the environment. Individual 
groups had planned and implemented many programs on 
the theme of pollution in past summers. But last summer, 
the staff believed there was a need for a greater emphasis in 
regards to the environment. Hence we developed a program 
around the theme of an “Earth Day”. We began the plan 
with the establishment of the objectives. 

The first and most important objective was the develop¬ 
ment or change of attitude among the campers and staff 
regarding the environment. It was the hope, as well, that if 
this objective was established, depending upon the degree, 
the concern for the environment would be transferred to 
other settings. 

The second objective was to involve people outside of 
the camp so that what we were doing would be an example 
for others in the area to follow. In order to accomplish 
these objectives, we decided that it could not be just a 
“talking” program with discussion groups, the campers had 
to be actively involved in an environmental program. Hence 
“Earth Day” was evolved. 

The Program — "Earth Day" 

We began the program with waking the campers up at 
11:00 p.m. to come to a mass assembly. When all the 
campers were assembled, we showed a fifteen minute film 
“The Rise and Fall of the Great Lakes ”. The film is an 
excellent portrayal of the pollution of the Great Lakes 
which has been caused by increased technology and lack of 
concern. Following the movie, the program director intro¬ 
duced “Earth Day” which was to be held the next day at 
camp. An oil drum was hung in effigy and a large scroll was 
unfolded as a proclamation for “Earth Day”. The campers 
then went back to bed. 

The next morning at breakfast news reports from around 
the world were given by camp staff every two or three 
minutes. They included forest fires burning out of control 
which were caused by careless campers, oil slicks on the 
oceans, raw sewage being dumped into the lakes and rivers 
of our country, and air pollution that was so bad in Tokyo 


that masks had to be worn and oxygen stations set up due 
to the pollution caused by cars. 

Following breakfast, half the camp went to swimming 
and half to canoeing where our instructors made a presenta¬ 
tion of what Lake of the Woods could be like in 1980. 
They indicated the water was so polluted that there could 
be no swimming or canoe instruction. 

The air had become so bad due to industrial wastes that 
we were going to have to evacuate the area. The campers 
then came back to a mass assembly in which they received 
a challenge about the world in which they wanted to live. 
Was it a world which would be shaped and determined by 
others or was it a world in which they would have a share 
and voice in its development? If the world belonged to 
everyone then everyone should have a part in the develop¬ 
ment of that world. In order to have a say they could not 
just sit back and be passive spectators. THEY must be in¬ 
volved and they must assume some responsibility for the 
world. Therefore it really does not matter if we personally 
litter. It really does not matter who desecrates the environ¬ 
ment. The result affects us. If we want to perpetuate the 
beauty of nature then we have to assume the responsibility 
for the actions that will achieve our goals. By our exerting a 
leadership role by example, other people may follow and 
hopefully become as concerned as we are and take appro¬ 
priate actions. 

In order to meet this challenge, the whole camp was 
transported to a public island several miles away which was 
littered with broken bottles and garbage. The older campers 
went by canoe and the younger campers were transported 
by a large boat. When we phoned the owner of the boat in 
Kcnora and told him that we wanted to charter his boat, he 
became so excited by the program that he gave us the boat 
at no charge as his contribution to the program. We con¬ 
tacted the Department of Natural Resources in Kenora and 
they offered us two men for the day as well as all the 
equipment we wanted to assist in the clean up. 

After our arrival at the public beach, three large tents 
were erected for changing and for first aid. Sandwiches, 
juice and fruit had been packed for the campers to eat at 
lunchtime. 

The island had been divided into sections and the groups 
were dispersed to designated areas for the purpose of clean¬ 
ing up. They found large open garbage pits which were 
cleaned up, bottles were collected and within a couple of 
hours the island was spotless. The most rewarding aspect 
of the program was to see campers, ages 9 to 15, excited 


12 




4> 

G 

o 

d 

G : 


o 

33 


3 

O 


o 

£ 


o <u *r 

X o O 

c+_ <D 33 

O^g 

p (/) CO 

)3 G co 
” rd o 
£ £ b 

co O SO 

|h I 

3 "O 3 
« " 2 
2 5 


E'Sfi 

Cl r; ^ 

oo G 
O GO 
Jr Cx) 

Gh tyr, «-< 

C3 
£ 


CO 

. ^ o 


JL> 

CL 

o 

<u 

CL 


o 


O 3 

O £ 

X o d 
n a G 
o CL « 

5 S.S 
2 -3 -5 

P CO flj 

~Oh E ■£ 

£X o 

« g o 

»- o co 

O , , t) 

X co -G 

g-“o 

J ' a 3> 

. ^-o 


21 
A = 

<D O 
7 a co 

’> o 
. CL 
CL 

G o 

O 3 

O O 
G </5 
~3 <L> 

.s; 

i § 

> ^ 

o i: 

= 2 

■ — C co 


CO o 

£'d 

d -a 

o c 

'G CO 

t-H 

co 


2 o 

O CO 

C CO 
<u o 

^ s 

o o 


c co 

73 GO 

•g 2 

cd CL 

C « 
CJ » *■ ■ < 

X H 

co 


33 

43 


CL) G 
00 X 
CO 

CL « 


2 g. 

o CO 
£ CL 
co 
> 
43 
G 


w 


CL 

o 

o 

x 

o 

1 — 

o 

X 

•a 

CO 

CL 

£ 

cO co 

O «- 


o 

X 


£ © 

co 


O [L O 

33 C! 


O £ 

>» C 

§1 
E -S 

3 

£ .b 
o S 
cb «£ 

’S 3 
A g 

° -S 

X 03 


43 


G 

CL E 
43 o 


O 

cj co 

V-, 

O Q> 

X 
4- O 
c e 
43 5 
co O 
o * r; 

5.1 


a S 


3 

. a « 

CL 3 

_ o 


7 

0 

O 

CL 

'J 

X 

L—, 
O- 

0 

0 

0 

2i 

00 

.£ 

O 

u, 

CO 

O 

co 

co 

33 

O 


?pia 


43 


o 

>> c 


43 


CO 


s* g 

2 £ 


ro 5- e3 

g§°: F 

•— G c0 C 

o 00 > o CO 

w C0 O -b 00 


CL ° 

x *o 

33 o 
00 X 
.£ G 

5| 

Q 3 


£ 

o 


£ 

>7 


43 

£ o 


1- r- O H 

3 O -5 - 


0) o 

f « 

5 G3 

> o 


<L> O 
-C u * 
■5 CL 
X 

G o 

co jd 

« H 

O co 

o |r 

•£ d 

C/) g 

CO 


£ ° 
o •£ E 
ot: o 

^ pj & 

~ - G 


•£ IE oj t g 


>> d g> 

■|i I 

l—i s. ^ 

g.l’S 

Sc" 


•C c oc 


co O 

C0 


CO • — 

o 

73 CO 

c 


o 
c 

P o 

«3 -o 

^ o 

CO ■*-* 
r- "3 

G P 


> * JG 

3 o ~ 

o > 

•-—I > co 
-3 O 

C g) > 

£ ’d 3 

rd JG ^ 

5l rt 
O O O 

Cl C 


33 G 


co 
w jG 
C .3 
O si 

5 ^ 


2 G 

SP’sb 

CL- 0 
L-, o 

o ■*-* 

co O 

o G 
CL -G 
>, ^ 


.§ o 

CO 


3= -ZOZZ 




g? s 
^ 73 
■3 S * 

>% 'co 


o a ^ 

JG > o 

H ^ 3 


DO 
co - 
-O 


O 

CL 

x p 

O DO 

O 

G 

DO c^_ 

C 

rd 

« G 

O 

O 

X U 

X 

!—i 

M Ji 

00 "E. 


rd 

O 

r- 1 

33 


co . JG .G 

C/5 O «- CO 

3 ; g o d ^ 

G 3 0 — o 

o b ~ o O 

- 0 O -—} ^ 5c 


y co 4 _ ^ 
O S G 
O £ o 

4-1 o E 

CO <— r- 
0^0 
52? 

1 >5 

O -V 


co C 
c .2 
O to 
JG O 
~ DO 

o- 

O CO 


o 


o 


■£ - 
CO . 


o 

O .3 


O 

>- 


IJ.2 

O o D3 

' 1 3 . 


o _o 
DO 1 - 
CO CO ' 
DO 


CL 

O 


CxC ~ o JG 

*s3 | •§ £ 

1 &g-2 

Z 3 « 

L- 3 3 j 

3 ^ O 

js t " 


00 ^ — 


DO 

G ^ 
co jG 

c* z 

CO 

C 

o — 
'— -G 
C CO 


t § 


CL 
g c_ 
33 O 


JG 

D3 b? 
DO O 


G -o 

C 3 


CO o 


CO 

4—> 

■p 



X) 

0 

0 


X 

X 

"cO 

O 

X 

u 

O 

0 

X 

<4-4 

CO 

DO 

C 

CO 


0 


CO 

0 


0 

G 

33 



rd 
O 
1 —, 

CO 

G 

"G 

x 

0 


0 

O 

0 

0 


03 O 

p JG 

1 2 
o E 

CO •—I 
CO 

CO -o 
CLd 
G 33 

3 d 

0 d 

o 

o 2 " 

I 2 

DO 

O 

-G ‘'co 
>> 
JG O 


Dr £— 

^ ^ g>. 

D ^ J J 

Dp 0 

*2 O £ o 
_p co 33 

O 3 3 _ 


cO 3 

G ° 

33 'o 
o ^ 

c .2 

— o 

CL J3 


O 

3 03 




■—■ O 
'a .do jg g 


ggg E.EjgP^coo^ 

- ^ 00— 3 ~ 


S CL o 

I <0 ‘ 

o 33 
O G 

b o 


o 

JG 

C0 


: £ o 

| £ J= 
0) 4-1 

! CL 
JG G 
1 — rg 
rd G 
CO 33 


DO p C 


C 'S 


JG > 

33 O 

3 = v- 5 
— o o 

CLUL (d0 co 


cO 


CG 


- 3 Q 

.2 £ jj 
CO 00 o 


co o 
D ’G ^ 


O 

3 ^_T 

b S 
o £ 

4_ O 

G i-< 
O ’> 
JG G 
CO O 


o 

JG 

H 
ob ca 

G r/5 


DO 03 03 33.L 

2 « O § ^ 

= 


— JG O) 


*33 C 


03 .3 
1— 

DO — 


CO o 


•— CL 
O C 

> <u 
_ > 
E L) 

CO 33 
DO C 

o w 


O 2G 

G o 
G ,3 


> 
CD , 

o 


’5 ts SP g £ 

° DO 
O 

O 03 

G3 <l> 
DO 
3 jjd 

5 c? 

o o 
CL > 
5 co 

o 

o ^ 


o CO 

y « ss 

— -Go 
^ o 

W — o o 

3 G G JG 
O O ^ w 
JJ JG p co 

DO CO g CO 


C G 4_, 
^ o — 
-C c ^ 

r—’ 1 rO 


CL SZ JZ* 


O 0C 
o 


G 

b 73 
O o 
X) 

c ^ 


o 

X 

o 

CO 


CD 

Lii 


« s ^ -5 E a 

G o 1 g 5 <*- ^ 

g«S£§-.S 

g |S OJC “ " 
o =022 

DO O 33 G3 co 


CL 

o 

X , 


G Z3 

C -p 


O c^ 


CL O 

G 1/3 
• — o 
> 

g 

JG o 

H 

Id 

o 


>% o 

d 1c 

2 3 

§ 2 

O o 

CL £ 


CL £ 

I = 

3 a 

& I 

t-> CO 


o ™ 
^ CO 


33 d 

S o -g' 

- == S 

Co — 

'= - s 

g = o 
Cl o o 
OPG 


G G 
X g 
OO - 

.£ o _ 

“ o ” 

-*-* co 


CO 

o 


2 G G 


rd 


O 03 - 

G o o 

O >> JG 
33 d ^ 
CL ^ 
> > co O 

G D 
DO ^ G 
G O 

= ? = 
— o o 


>, CO > 
X 3 X 


G ”2 
O co 


CL 

2 « 

~ s: 

f.s 

CO 4_, 

- -Si 
»> = 
o co 


O CO o 

3 3 - 


co 


1 = 
o 

- 4-1 To 


1*1^ 
co o G 
o X G 
X ‘ 


o 


“ s 


_ --3 

^ OG 
o 


o G 

33 3 

G ^ 

G oo CL 


DO 

o 


0 

V3 

x 

0 

*> 

^ G 

3 ^ co 

11 

> 

4) L> 

0 2 

00 

■S G 


c 

O 

0 do 

- d 

X 'X 
.2 ^ 

<— j G 

£ 

CO 

x 0 

G • G 

0 

£ .2 

0 £ 








TREMBLAY CANOES 



The finest canoes made in Canada today — correctly designed by craftsmen with 65 years' experience for men who 
really know canoes — stable, seaworthy, safe, capable of riding the roughest water or fast water. 

The unsinkable cedar canoes with no space taken up by floatation tanks. 

Tremblay canoes have for the past 9 years been covered with ''Verolite'', a plastic-coated canvas which ELIMINATES 
ALL EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE. Lighter than painted canvas and far more durable and scuff resistant — not 
affected by heat or cold. 

After seven years' use by more than 60 Boys' and Girls' camps and by various police units and several governmental 
departments in Ontario and Quebec, also by Paper Mills and Lumbering Companies in their spring drives and by 
Mining and Oil Development Companies and by thousands of canoeists comprising the general public, we have yet to 
have a complaint from any user who was not happy with the performance of Verolite. 

In the construction of Tremblay Canoes only No. 1 Eastern Canada Cedar is used and only solid Brass nails and Brass 
screws are used. The deck pieces, thwarts and seats are of white Birch. Seats may be either slat style or rawhide laced. 
The interior is finished with Urethane Lacquer to provide years of protection. 

For the fisherman, hunter or camp operator, Tremblay offers a complete range of pointed, V-Stern, or flat-wide stern 
canoes in 43 sizes and models. 

Verolite is now available in red, green or orange. Green and orange are colour fast. Red not guaranteed colour fast. 
Carrying yokes can be built in or provided separately. These are extra. 

Verolite covered canoes do not require periodic painting, thus they do not take on added weight with the passing years. 

A Cedar canoe is always preferred by the experienced knowledgeable canoeist. They ride right and handle right. 
For complete information write to the Canadian Sales Representatives, see below. 

Toronto stock available and/or direct from factory stock available only through MARGESSON AND COMPANY, 
LTD., 117 Adelaide Street E., Toronto, Phone 366-2741, a dealer specializing in Camp and Institutional Sales. 

Made by 

TREMBLAY CANOES LIMITED 

40 ST. PAUL ST., ST. FELICIEN, QUE. 

EXCLUSIVE SALES REPRESENTATIVES FOR CANADA 

CAMERON & TYRRELL LTD. 

P.O. BOX 97, STATION "D", TORONTO, ONT. M6P 3J5 • Phone 621-3909 


14 



WIDE games 


by Neil Graham 

Associate Director, Boys’ Camp, 
Pioneer Ranch Camp 


Many of our wide games were developed in planning 
sessions with counsellors and staff at our Pioneer Camps in 
Alberta. Joe Curry was the basic “brain” behind many of 
these games and was the man responsible for our learning 
how to dream them up. 

What is a wide game? The only definition I’ve ever heard 
is that it is “a game involving large teams of people over a 
large area of land”. 

The wide game people are most familiar with is often 
called “Capture the Flag”. In this game, people are divided 
into 2 teams and given a number of flags (i.e. towels, papers, 
etc.) The teams are given a territory to occupy and are to 
place their Hags together somewhere within that territory. 
A clearly marked or defined boundary will separate the 
territory of the teams. The flags are generally required to be 
visible from some stated distance (i.e. 50 feet) and generally 
are surrounded by a circle (made of flour, toilet paper, etc.). 
The object of the game is for each team to successfully 
cross into the other team’s territory and get into the oppos¬ 
ing flag circle without being “killed”. Once inside the 
circle the attacker is free to take one flag back to his terri¬ 
tory. When one team loses all its Hags the other team has 
won. 

Each team appoints some people to attack the other’s 
base and some to defend its own. There are various methods 
of capturing attackers. Generally the defenders must seize 
some article off the attacker — a crepe paper arm band, a 
piece of adhesive off the forehead, a hat, etc. In Co-ed 
games we sometimes make a rule that only girls can attack 
other girls, but often the girls want to be “liberated” from 
the role! If you are captured you will be taken to a prison¬ 
er’s base located somewhere on the enemy territory (also a 
large circle or natural clearing with clear boundaries). You 
must stay in the prison unless you are freed by one of your 
comrades breaking into the prison and touching you with¬ 
out being captured. Sometimes the rule is that one person 
successfully breaking in frees everybody in the prison. The 
freed prisoners go back into their own territory where they 
are given fresh arm bands so that they may rejoin the game. 

This game outlines the basics of a wide game. There are 
innumerable variations and several examples of these will 
be described in forthcoming issues of “Canadian Camping”. 

Our wide games were generally given some added mean¬ 
ing by involving a theme taken from past or contemporary 
history. 

This and other examples to be published should give 
you enough ideas to create many of your own new outdoor 
games. It might be helpful to suggest a few principles that 
will make most wide games work effectively. 

(1) Plan a wide game with several other people — evaluate 
every part of it together to make certain it will really 
work and be fun and safe. Two or three of you thinking 


it out together will soon see loopholes in the game — 
things that need to be clarified, etc. Try to anticipate 
ways of cheating and cover them with rules. However, 
be sure not to stamp out all “creativity” with rules. 

(2) Ask yourself, “Will everyone be able to play in this 
game till the end? Is it possible the game could-be over 
in a very short time?” Try to make sure the game is 
challenging enough to last some time but simple 
enough so that people will actually feel they are getting 
somewhere. 

Again be very careful to see that people are “re¬ 
cycled”. For example, when someone loses his life or is 
imprisoned, there must be a fairly simple way for him 
to get back into the game again; otherwise, the game 
will be very boring for him. 

(3) Make sure all boundaries are clear. A person must know 
when he’s safe and when he’s not. If the boundaries are 
really clear, disputes will be- kept to a minimum. Make 
use of clear roads and trails, use string or toilet paper or 
fires to make clear lines. Also, a number of supervisors 
on hand at all major spots of conflict can help to 
quickly rule on disputes before they get out of hand. 
Keep the game moving! 

(4) Try to design your games so there is a role for the 
quieter, non-athletic campers. Adjust your game to 
your crowd. 

(5) Make your scores high. Instead of one point for a 
prisoner, make it 1,000 or 10,000 etc. It sounds much 
more impressive. Also, check to make sure your scores 
are balanced. Balance your teams athletically. 

(6) Make sure teams are clearly identifiable — everyone 
must be able to tell who is on which team (unless the 
game specifically involves not knowing). Kids will tend 
to try to hide their arm bands or their tape. Stop that 
action quickly. 

(7) Watch for safety hazards. Check out areas to be used 
before each game. Get rid of barbed wire, open wells, 
dangerous holes, etc. Clearly mark dangerous areas and 
remind campers of them. Night games in the bush are 
dangerous. Emphasize skulking at night rather than 
running. You’ve got to be sneaky, not fast. 

(8) The game is to be played by the rules set down. It will 
never work unless campers understand the concept of 
honour. If you are shot — you’re dead; if you are 
clubbed, you must go as a prisoner; if you have been 
caught, you must give up your booty. Heavily penalize 
teams that cheat. 

(9) Make sure leaders understand the game clearly. Always 
have a few counsellors helping the campers on each 
team. Go over the game rules thoroughly with everyone 
ahead of time. Use a map to clearly illustrate boundaries. 
Have leaders in control of the areas where points are 
made or lost. 

(10) It is helpful to get the whole camp excited about the 

game ahead of time, by having some kind of confronta¬ 
tion between the teams before the game - even just a 
put-on fight or verbal attack between' the leaders will 
help to polarize feeling in the camp and enable people 
to “feel” the game much more quickly. ■ 


15 




THE TOUGHEST 


KING OF THE WHITE WATER 

• UNBREAKABLE 

• LIGHT 55 LBS. FOR 12' 

65 LBS. FOR 15' 

75 LBS. FOR 17' 

• DURABLE 

• STABLE ETHEFOAM STRIPS 

ETHEFOAM INSIDE 

• AVAILABLE IN YELLOW AND 

DARK GREEN 



THE SAFEST 


• UNSINKABLE • RESISTANT 

• LIGHT • CAPACITY 1100 LBS. 

• STRONG • UNIQUE SHAPE 


For more information write to: 

ESKAY PLASTICS LTD. 

2565 LE CORBUSIER 
CHOMEDEY LAVAL 
QUEBEC 




If you enjoy working with 
your hands (so many people 
do), then you will appreciate 
the contents of our new 1974 

CRAFT 

CATALOGUE 

and 

IDEA Boor 


Its 132 pages are full of Craft 
ideas, basic instructions and 
materials you can use during 
your creative leisure hours. 
Many craftworkers consider it 
a reference book on contempor¬ 
ary Arts 'n Crafts. So if you 
enjoy working with your hands 
and would like a compliment¬ 
ary copy, simply send us your 
name and address. 



284-286 KING ST. WEST, 
TORONTO 2B, CANADA 













































































































Barber* Stewart McWilliams & Wallace 

Insurance Agencies 

6 Lansing Square, Agincourt, Ontario M2J 1T9 
Telephone: 416-493-0050 

“Our Insurance is Your Assurance” 

We are well versed in all aspects of camp insurance 
i.e., fire, liability, theft, vehicle coverage, etc. 

Consultations by appointment anywhere in Ontario 


Discover the Outdoors 



CANOEING AND 
KAYAKING 
by Wolf Ruck 


A complete guide to meet 
the growing interest in re¬ 
creational and competitive 
canoeing and kayaking. 
Among the many topics 
discussed are canoe and 
kayak design; paddling 
theory; flat and white water 
technique. Over 80 photos 
and 40 | diagrams $5.95 


WATERSKIING 
by Ken Stephens 

A must for all waterskiing enthusiasts who want 
to develop skill, style and level of competence. 
This comprehensive guide covers technique, 
equipment, physical conditioning and dry-land 
practice. Every sequence — from elementary 
two-ski technique through to advanced jumping 
and kite-flying — is illustrated by superb, timed 
photo-studies and manoeuvres. Ken Stephens, 
Director of the Canadian Waterskiing Instructor’s 
Course, has included valuable advice on fir.st aid, 
water safety and boat driving, as well as helpful 
suggestions for instructors. With over 120 
photos and diagrams. $5.95 


WATERSKIING 

l>> Ki n Stephens 



McGraw-Hill Ryerson 



EARLY DAYS IN 
ALGONQUIN PARK 
by Ottelyn Addison 


The history of Algonquin 
Park from forest wilderness 
to most popular tourist 
area in Ontario. Daughter 
of Mark Robinson, one of 
the early rangers, Ottelyn 
Addison brings to life the 
Park’s eventful past with 
lively anecdotes and 140 
photos. I $9.95 h ! c $4.95 pb 


17 




















ORDER NOW FOR BETTER 
ASSORTMENT 

WILL HOLD FOR CAMP OPENING 
LIMITED SUPPLY 

Pre-Camptime Offer of 
Substandards at Generous 
Discounts 

Items not Illustrated: 


i Vegetable Bowl 

• Platter 

• Pitcher 

• Tumbler 

» Creamer and Sugar 

• Salad Servers 

• Jam or Sugar Pot 

• Salt and Peppers 
i Soup Plate 

• Butter Dish and 
Cover 

• Gravy Boat 

Colours: Yellow, 
Green, Coral, Blue 


4 ' wtyfo 


OUR "VANGUARD" STYLE 
With Draining and Stacking Features 


375 Danforth Road, 
Scarborough, Ont. 

698-2545 


NATIONAL GROCERS COMPANY LIMITED 

Wholesale Distributors 

FRUITS • VEGETABLES • BUTTER • CHEESE • EGGS 
FROZEN FOODS • GENERAL GROCERY PRODUCTS 

19 BRANCHES IN ONTARIO 

National Groceries Company, Limited, operate 19 distributing warehouses throughout the Province of 
Ontario, ready at all times to serve the camping trade with prompt deliveries. 


Belleville 

Warehouses located at: 

^Kingston 

^Ottawa 

Bramalea 

^Kitchener 

Owen Sound 

Chatham 

^London 

^Pembroke 

Cochrane 

New Liskeard 

^Peterborough 

Gore Bay 

^Niagara Falls 

*Sault Ste. Marie 

Hamilton 

*Orillia 

*Sudbury 


*Oshawa 



HEAD OFFICE: 32 Front St. West, Toronto 

Cash and Carry Warehouses at points marked * 




from ^ 2uelrec 


A C.I.T. PROGRAMME IDEA 



-Madelene Allen 
Director , Camp Ouareau 


We, in Quebec, are familiar with our provincial standards. 
We view this tome in different lights depending on the time 
of year and the stage of development of our camp. Idealis¬ 
tically, in the first planning stage, we use it as a guide line 
in organizing for the summer and when we take that first 
tour of camp after the snow has left its wrath of cracked 
beams and the spring rains have washed out the paths. Even 
though we know we have done our best, we view it with 
slight trepidation as we leaf through its pages the night 
before the visitor is expected. Have you, however, thought 
of it as a teaching tool? 

As a young director who has the privilege of serving on 
the Q.C.A. Standards Committee, 1 tried giving it to my 
C.I.T.’s, at the slx week point of their training, along with 
the marking scheme. The five young ladies took their 
assignment very seriously. They worked in pairs on different 
sections for a period of one week, in addition to their regu¬ 
lar training schedule. 

1 was interviewed by one girl who had pencil and note¬ 
book at the ready. I saw my senior staff members carrying 
out their duties with a C.I.T. shadow. The records of pro¬ 
grammes and staff lists were made available. The waterfront 
was inspected, the canoes examined, the toilets counted, 
the outlets of the septic tanks checked after a heavy rain. I 
almost expected to see one of them coming out of a garbage 
container! It was an exciting week! At the end of the 
period, the group came to my cabin and we talked far into 
the night over innumerable cups of coffee. 

I found the comments of those young adults very 
worthwhile, quite critical and realistic. They learned a great 
deal of what was involved in running a camp; also, they 
learned to look at much, which they had previously taken 
for granted, with a whole new outlook. 

If a director has the time and faith in her C.I.T.'s and 
faith in the camp, then I would highly recommend this 
activity as a part of any C.I.T. programme. 


,df> 


ana trom 


Cent runnvick 


.AN OPINION 

IS IT WORTH IT? 

Every enthusiastic camp leader has been discouraged 
when trying to sell the importance of camping to a com¬ 
mittee, council or congregation. So few people can truly 
realize the real worth of camping. Even discouraged camp 
chiefs often despair and say . . . is it worth it all? The camp 
season leaves the leader tired and in “down’' moments will 
ask himself: “is it worth it? Have I accomplished anything?” 
Then he recalls the dying embers of a campfire and a teen¬ 
ager who stayed behind just to talk. He remembers sitting 
on a log overlooking the water with the moon dancing on it 
and discussing some real problems with this youth. For¬ 
gotten, then, are those discouraging moments and he looks 
forward eagerly to the fall and winter weekends when some 
of the gang will be back. 

The job of a camp enthusiast is to sell camping to the 
general public. One of our oft-repeated mistakes is to try 
and do this selling job by word of mouth or a few hastily 
prepared photos. This is a very inadequate way to get dis¬ 
interested people enthused about what is happening in an 
active camp programme one hundred miles away. 

The suggestion came from the National Camping Day 
Committee to invite people to the camp on that day. One 
New Brunswick camp followed this recommendation and 
among its guests were the local weekly newspaper editor 
and his wife. And the result? A tour of the camp after 
dinner brought such enthusiastic response resulting in a 
front page editorial, in bold type, which editorial found its 
way into 5000 homes. Nothing can surpass having people 
on the grounds for a few hours so that they have a first¬ 
hand impression of 80 or 100 campers enjoying their meal, 
crafts, sports and everything else that makes up the 
camp scene. 

What today’s camp needs is a group of vitally interested 
people who are tired of reading about the problems and 
faults of youth and want to give them a chance. Too long 
we have tried to put youth into a mould and they aren’t 
interested! They want reality. 

I have watched the changes in camping patterns in the 
past 25 years and see little change in the actual camper. 
They still want camping and not glorified entertainment. 
They still want the out-of-doors. What really counts is the 
personnel and not great buildings. It’s worth it! A man 
phones from Ohio merely to say “Merry Christmas” and to 
extend thanks for his days at camp. A lady returns to the 
grounds to show “her camp” to her husband. These ex¬ 
periences make it all worthwhile. 

Let camping people in Canada hold their heads high! 
Camping is here to stay ... as long as we have youth, 
natural environment and people who really care. 

-Rev. Philip A. Giberson 
Saint John Valley Bible Camp 


19 





STAFFORD FOODS LTD. 


Head Office Toronto 
366-8021 


Canned Fruits 

A tradition of 

Soup Bases 

Powders 

Laboratory Controlled 

Jams 

Pie Fillings 

Quality Food products 

Hot Chocolate 

Toppings 

has made "STAFFORD" 

Shortening 

Condiments 

the outstanding name 

Potatoes 

Tomato Products 

in the 

Tea 

Sprees 

Food Service Industry 

Flavours 


Branch Offices Toronto 
and Warehouses Hamilton 


Winnipeg 

Calgary 


• Moncton 

• Montreal 


Edmonton 

Vancouver 



MEDICAL 
SUPPLIES 
FOR CAMPS? 


Starkmans of course, because we have been supplying all the major 
camps for over 37 years. 

Starkmans wholesale division gives you one source of supply — fast 
service, and all orders are shipped the same day received. 

You are sure of the finest First Aid equipment, drugs and medicines, 
call or write, and remember low, low prices prevail at Starkmans. 


(( 


3n the Service o[ .Medicine 


>> 




STARKMAN 

CHEMISTS LIMITED 

1243 Bathurst St., Toronto 
Ontario M5S 1Y1 
Telephone: (416) 534-8411 


20 






- CLASSIFIED ADS ~~ 

HALIBURTON HIGHLANDS 

For only $69,700 you can purchase 
608' of lovely lake frontage on beautiful 
PAUDASH LAKE — approx. 6 acres of 
land surrounded on 2 sides by Crown 
Land. Has been a successful Girls' Camp 
but has unlimited possibilities! Large 
main lodgewith 9+ rooms, natural stone 
fireplace and large screened-in verandah. 
2-A frame sleeping chalets (sleep 23); 
1 building with laundry room and wash¬ 
room with 4 toilets, 4 sinks, 4 showers. 
5 permanent docks. 

Call Jayne Heath in Toronto at 
485-9331 or 445-2436. 

ROYAL TRUST REAL ESTATE 


CAMP FOR SALE 

HUNTSVILLE - Algonquin Park Area; 
ready to operate this summer; fully 
equipped with canoes, sailboats, motor 
boats, sports equipment. Main lodge, 
Rec Hall, Craftshop, Cabins, Tennis 
court, Sandy shoreline. Accommoda¬ 
tion for 150. 

Camps in other areas also available. 

For full details, contact Bert Danson at 
(416) 752-6070 

YOUNG 8e BIGGIN REALTOR 


FOR SALE 

FIBREGLASS SAILBOAT . . . Almost 
new Paceship, length sixteen, beam six, 
enclosed foredeck, self-draining cockpit. 
Excellent condition, fully-equipped, 
aluminum mast, boom and rigging, 
chrome deck fittings, dacron sails. 
Roomy, stable, excellent for beginners 
or family sailing, location Muskoka. 
Replacement value two thousand. 
Owner's health prevents further use. 
Will sacrifice. 

W. John Goad 

Apt. 14, 200 Devonshire Ave., London, 
Ontario 


SPOUTS (QU/PMC/n 


We specialize in Crests, Crested Shirts, 
Jackets etc., specially designed for your 
camp requirements. 


We carry complete inventory 

On: Trampolines, Volleyball, Softball, 
Basketball, Indoor and Outdoor 
Games, Life Saving Equipment, 
Shuffleboard, Tetherball, Archery. 
Flag Football, First Aid Kits a* 
wholesale prices. 


JACK WATSON 

SPORTS, INC. 

30 Mobile Dr., Toronto 16 


Phone 757-2844 free Catalogue 



BANNOCK (BASIC RECIPE) 

For each cup of flour add 2 tblsp. 
shortening, 2 tblsp. baking powder 
(more or less), and Vi tsp. salt (or 
sugar). Mix all ingredients thoroughly 
and then add just enough water to 
make it “hang together”. Bake in re¬ 
flector oven, or in a frying pan (stand 
it up beside fire to collect heat). 
Bannock can be used wherever bread 
is used in addition to the following 
i variations — 

! 1. Add 1 tblsp. sugar. Add flavourings 
I of any kind, such as cinnamon. In- 
| eludes berries, chopped dates, nuts, 

’ raisins, etc. Make a chocolate or 
; butterscotch sauce and pour it over 
bannock for dessert. 

! 2. Bannock can be made into cheese 
teabiscuits by adding cheese and 
cutting the flattened dough into 
biscuits. 

3. For a nice variation, stir small pieces 
of semi-sweet chocolate into the 
bannock — this makes an excellent 
chocolate cake dessert. Top with 
lemon, orange or chocolate sauce. 

4. Bread twist-To the bannock recipe 
add just enough liquid to make a 
stiff dough. Mould dough into a 
ribbon about 2 inches wide and as 
thick as your little finger. Twist 
around stick, toast and fill with 
butter and jam. 


TRAIL RAREBIT 

2 tblsp. butter 
4 tblsp. flour 
1 3 A cups evaporated milk 
1 lb. cheese, diced 
1—19 oz. can peas 
VA tsp. salt 
] A tsp. cayenne 
10 slices toast 

Melt butter in frying pan. Rub in flour 
until smooth. Add milk slowly and 
stir until mixture thickens and is 
smooth. Add cheese; stir until it is 
melted. Add undrained peas and season¬ 
ing. Cook until mixture is thoroughly 
blended: Serve hot on toast. 

Serves 10. 



CINNAMON ROLLS 

2 cups bannock, mixed 
2/3cup water 
Cinnamon 
1/8lb. margarine 
Brown sugar 

Add just enough water to moisten dry 
ingredients. Roll out !4" thick. Put 
butter on dough and sprinkle with 
sugar and cinnamon in generous 
amounts. Make into a roll. Cut in 
slices about % inch thick or bake as is. 
(May also be made with cheese in place 
of cinnamon, sugar and butter.) 

SALMON (TUNA OR 
GROUND MEAT) PINWHEELS 

Roll out bannock about 14" thick. 
Moisten salmon with cream or oil in 
can and spread with dough. Make roll 
and slice into %" pieces and bake be¬ 
fore a moderate fire. Serve with peas 
and cream sauce. 

CHARLIE'S HASH 

Cut bacon into small pieces and fry 
until partially cooked. Add sliced 
onions and potatoes. Add water to 
steam until vegetables cooked (with lid 
on). Beat eggs and add to mixture. 
Cook until egg is scrambled. Salt and 
pepper to taste. 

Each camper will need: 2 slices bacon, 
raw potato, ] A onion, and 1 egg. 

SPANISH BURGERS 

2 tblsp. bacon fat or 1 cube butter 

2 lb. hamburg 

1 onion, chopped 
1—10 oz. can chicken gumbo soup 

3 tblsp. ketchup 

3 tblsp. prepared mustard 
or Vi tsp. dry mustard 
Vi tsp. salt 
!4 tsp. pepper 

Brown the hamburg and onion in the 
bacon fat or butter until the red colour 
is out of the meat. Add the remaining 
ingredients and simmer for about 15 
minutes. Add a little water, if the mix¬ 
ture cooks dry. Put on toasted rolls or 
on biscuits. 


21 















I 



For the cleanest of 
camping, call for 
McKague. 

Your McKague man has it all—a complete range of products 
to assure you the cleanest camping conditions possible. 

From the McKemco family of fine cleaning supplies (the biggest 
in the business) he can provide you with chemicals and 
compounds for every campsite kitchen, sanitation and 
laundry purpose. 

From leading manufacturers he can supply you with the finest 
of laundry machinery equipment. 

And if your camp has a swimming pool, McKague has the 
ways to clean it and to keep it clean, with chemicals for filtration, 
chlorination, algae and alkalinity control, flocculation 
and coagulation. 

So for cleaner camping, be sure to contact your McKague 
representative soon. You'll be glad all season that you did. 



Over a Quarter of a Century of Service with Sales 
100 MIDWEST ROAD, SCARBOROUGH, ONTARIO 
and McKAGUE CHEMICALS (EASTERN) LTD. 

421 COURTEMANCHE AVENUE, MONTREAL EAST, QUEBEC 



7104 


Lundrigans is one of 


Atlantic Canada’s 


largest Construction 


groups 


Our business is 


Engineering Construction, 


Property Development, 


NN^LUrvJDRIGAIsJS sS' 

Concrete Products, \ 

Auto Sales and Leasing, 


and Commercial 


Buildings. 


This broad base enables 


us to respond to changing 


demand in growth areas. 


LUNDRIGANS - IN ATLANTIC Canada 

HEAD OFFICE: 


RIVERSIDE DRIVE, CORNER BROOK, NFLD. 


YOUR CAMPERS 
WILL 
ENJOY 



"Taste the Difference 
Quality Makes" 


J.M. SCHNEIDER LTD., KITCHENER, ONT. 
(519) 745-7321 


22 














\cova ^Vtdcv&w.'Uiaste 

\o ?res\x?oo& 

by Sam G. Hambly, 

Camp Allsaw 


If Youth as citizens, electors and legislators are to solve environ¬ 
mental problems on which curvival depends, it seems logical that 
practical experience be provided at an early age. Youth should be 
aware of pending environmental problems. The habit of involvement 
in finding solutions is desirable. 

Camp is a good place for this experience. The recycling of organic 
waste is a feature of the cycle on which life depends. It is the roots 
of our existence. Materials and space are available in every camp 
community. The principles of ecology and conservation that are in¬ 
volved provide creative activity and dynamic experience for the 
campers. 

It is imperative to develop a feeling for the natural conditions 
necessary for developing a high quality of soil culture. The elements 
are food for the soil building life (organic kitchen garbage, etc.), 
heat, and moisture. 

To set up a recycling facility: (for summer camp use more units) 

A. Get one sheet of 1/4 inch aspenite plywood, cut into sections 
2 ft. x 4 ft. Put a frame of 2” x 2" stock around each section. 
Set the panels up to form a square 2 ft. x 4 ft. Drill the corners 
4 inches from top and bottom and fasten together with 1/4 inch 
bolts or wire. Two squares provide a two-storey recycling unit. 
Make 2 covers - one of plywood 4 ft. x 4 ft. 3-1/2 inches, a 
second of plastic on a frame of 2" x 2" stock, the same size. 

The plastic lid conserves moisture and keeps out flies in summer 
weather. It also enables the facility to be used as a hotbed for 
growing seedlings in the spring. The wooden cover can be used 
on the second storey or stored for use during winter months to 
keep out the snow. 

B. Set up the frame(s) and fill them with a mixture of leaves, straw, 
hay. grass clippings, other organic waste and some farm manure 
in a 4 to 1 ratio. Add water to make the mixture moist. This pro¬ 
vides a medium to get the culture started. 

In three months, add 2 gallons of active soil culture containing a 
variety of soil-building life. 

With a two-storey unit, the mass may be shuffled from one to the 
other for mixing. Frequent mixing of the mature culture and 
fresh materials to provide an air and moisture balance is essential 
for a copious population of soil culture animals. 

C. In summer, assemble the contents of the unit, with a plastic gar¬ 
bage pail from which the bottom has been removed in the centre 
of the mixture. This enables the operator to funnel fresh organic 
waste to the bottom of the mass of culture. The soil culture 
life bacteria, fungi, earthworms, springtails, sow bugs, etc., will 
feed from beneath. A tightly fitted lid on the bottomless garbage 
pail and a plastic cover on the unit make the facility sanitary for 
use in urban areas. 



D. In winter (mid-October to April) use styrofoam insulation and 
plastic to conserve the natural 40°F. temperature of the earth 
and the chemical heat generated by the composting mass of 
organic waste. To do this, use panels of styrofoam 3'9" x 2'9" 
on the plywood sides of the box inside the 2" x 2" frame This 
may be secured by styrofoam contact cement. For extra warmth 
put a 2 ft. border of 2" styrofoam protected by 3/8" plywood 
on top of the ground around the unit. Inside the unit, remove 
the plastic funnelling cylinder. Mix the mass to a homogeneous 
mixture. On top of the mass, spread a sheet of plastic for vapour 
barrier. Over this, place 2 panels of 2 inch styrofoam (3'9" x 
riO"). This leaves some space for ventilation around the edge. 
Cover the unit with the wooden plywood cover. 

As the kitchen garbage accumulates in winter, spread it on top 
of the soil culture mixture under the vapour barrier. A good tech¬ 
nique is to remove one panel and turn back the vapour barrier on 
alternate days or weeks for adding the accumulated waste. To check 
the temperature within the unit, place a thermometer with a plastic 
frame under the vapour barrier. 

Hence a good supply of food (a variety of kitchen garbage), heat, 
moisture, and air enable the soil-building life within the culture to 
propagate and function throughout all seasons. 

This is a year-round ecology and conservation environmental 
activity. Related investigation and experiments using a microscope 
and other equipment can motivate practical interest in the environ¬ 
ment. 

This facility and technique is equally satisfactory in an urban or 
rural community. 


•rO/BPLITd •• PHONE 


® Dictaphone 

ANSWERING AND ORDER TAKING 
SYSTEMS 

Answers your phone 
with a personal 
voice on the first 
ring 24 hours a day 
taking all messages 
& orders accurately 


FREE DEMONSTRATION 

366-5454 

TORONTO 

COMPUTA-PHONE ELECTRONICS 

5576 YONGE/WILLOWDALE 



23 

















BOOKS FOR GROUP LEADERS 


1 New Dimensions in Youthwoik 

Edited by Howard P. Galloway 
Vol. 1, in 21 chapters, brings you 
articles collected from leading 
youthwork periodicals plus mate¬ 
rial especially written for this book. 
Contains the best, most current and 
most practical thoughts and ideas 
of two dozen authoritative sources. 
190 pages hard cover $9.95 

2 Effective Public Relations 
For Community Groups 

By Howard and Carol Levine 
A jam-packed 190 pages written to 
meet the needs of all groupwork 
leaders who wish to build their 
own PR program. The reader can 
learn how to write a news story 
or develop a full public relations 
program. 

190 pages hard cover $5.95 

3 Psychiatric Self Help 

By Dr. Gordon R. Forrer 
This book performs two functions: 
it is an aid to understanding one's 
own personality and also a tool for 
understanding the inner drives of 
those about him. Dr. Forrer has the 
knack of making meanings clear 
without the professional jargon too 
often found on the subject. 

70 pages hard cover $5.00 

4 The Rational Management 
Of Children 

By Dr. Paul A. Hauck 
Dr. Hauck writes a "down to earth" 
practical guide to raising children, 
never allowing reason and com¬ 
mon sense to be obscured by his 
psychological training. A valuable 
book to all supervisors of children, 
professionals, laymen, and parents. 
190 pages hard cover $5.95 

5 Omnibus of Fun 

By Helen and Larry Eisenberg 
A book useful to anyone with the 
task of planning entertainment. 

Thousands of "how to" ideas. 

625 pages hard cover $7.95 

6 Executive Responsibility 

In Voluntary, Community Welfare 
Organizations By Ray Johns 
Dr. Johns knows his social agen¬ 
cies, having been field director of 
USO operations and Executive Di¬ 
rector of the Boston YMCA. He 
brings an analytical mind to the 

Order from GALLOWAY 


problems of management in this 
257 page book filled with informa¬ 
tion for the executive or for one 
who wants to be. 

257 pages hard cover $4.95 

7 The New Encyclopedia of 
Successful Program Ideas 

Dorothy B. and Clement A. Duran 
More than 500 pages chock-full of 
tested ideas which not only be¬ 
come a resource to the Group Di¬ 
rector but also a stimulant to his 
own creative imagination. More 
than 5,000 ideas in this library of 
programs that have proven they 
work. 

511 pages hard cover $9.95 

8 Behavior Modification: The 
Scientific Way to Self Control 

By William C. Budd, Ph.D. 

This little book on behavior modi¬ 
fication provides easy to under¬ 
stand explanations of the theories 
behind the whole idea of character 
education and is especially inter¬ 
esting to youth workers who are 
trying to grasp ideas of how to or¬ 
ganize program to accomplish char¬ 
acter education goals. 

96 pages hard cover $5.00 

9 1,000 Stories and Quotations 
Of Famous People 

By Wayne E. Warner 
Quotable quotes from and about 
men and women from different 
walks of life, professions, and 
points of view make this 362 page 
book a wealth of material for the 
speaker, writer, or reading "just 
for fun." 

362 pages hard cover $7.95 

10 Action On The Streets 

By Frank J. Carney, Hans W. Mat- 
tick, John D. Callaway 
A practical "how to" book that 
points up the strengths and weak¬ 


nesses in various methods of pro¬ 
gramming for non-conforming 
youth. Every group worker should 
be aware of the problems and 
techniques for working with trou¬ 
bled youth—even if he doesn't 
work in the inner city. 

160 pages hard cover $4.95 

11 The Recreation Program Guide 

By Jean Spealman Kujoth 
This anthology of 74 writings pro¬ 
vides the professional group work¬ 
er with a wealth of indoor and out¬ 
door program activities. Well illus¬ 
trated and an excellent "how to" 
piece. 

437 pages hard cover $10.00 

12 Values For Freedom 

By Harry E. Moore, Jr. 

Moore sees social and political 
democracy as a system that must 
support individual liberties and re¬ 
quires a free society supported by 
undergirding values for its own 
survival. This book deals with the 
most important problems of our 
day such as race relations, educa¬ 
tion, political decision making, per¬ 
sonal growth—and the value sys¬ 
tem that makes it all work. Stimu¬ 
lation needed by every groupwork 
professional. 

125 pages hard cover $5.95 

13 The Survival Game 

By Gordon C. Lange 
International Environment Consul¬ 
tant Lange presents true stories of 
success and failure in the search 
for pollution remedies. This popu¬ 
lar book shows the kinds of ap¬ 
proaches needed—individual initia¬ 
tives, systems formulations using 
computer technology, legal guide¬ 
lines, and other evaluations as well 
as economic yardsticks. Lange says 
pollution problems can be solved 
at a cost society can pay. 


118 pages hard cover $5.95 

Please send me the following circled books: 
123456789 10 11 12 13 

Name . Title . 

Employer . 

Street and No. . 

City and State . Zip Code . | 

We pay postage if check accompanies order. 

| N. ./. residents please include 5% sales tax. 

t 

CORP., 5 Mountain Avenue, North Plainfield, N. J. 07060 










CHESTNUT CANOE CO. LTD. 

FREDERICTON, N.B. 

OVER 70 YEARS OF SERVICE TO CANADIAN CAMPERS 



WE HAVE A CANOE FOR EVERY PURPOSE 

Over 45 Models to choose from. 

Write to the Chestnut Canoe Co. for Free Literature and Prices 




RICHILDACA 

Mr. and Mr3. ’# . J. Babcock 
193 Richmond St., 

Richmond Hill, On*.. 




Dispose 

service problems with 

royal Chinet 

disposable plates and bowls 

Strong, attractive Royal CHINET food service products help you . . . 

• DISPOSE OF DISHWASHING COSTS 

Cut the expense of installing, maintaining and manning equipment 
that is used only a few months of the year. 

• DISPOSE OF BREAKAGE 

Save yourself the trouble and expense of buying matching replace¬ 
ments for pieces that crack, chip and shatter. 

• DISPOSE OF FOOD WASTE 

You get. exact portion control with Royal CHINET’s wide range of 
sizes in regular and compartmented designs. 

• DISPOSE OF GERM COLLECTORS 

Royal CHINET products are sterilized when manufactured and 
packaged. And there’s never a germ-collecting chip, crack or 
poorly washed dish. 

• DISPOSE OF IRRITATING NOISE 

Disposable service is silent service. Meals are relaxed without the 
clatter and crash of china or metal. 

ENVIRONMENTAL ADVANTAGES, TOO 

All good campers want to protect the environment. Royal CHINET prod¬ 
ucts are manufactured from a renewable resource. What’s more, they’re 
biodegradable .. . molded of natural wood fibres that burn readily with 
little smoke. Even if discarded out-of-doors, Royal CHINET quickly de¬ 
composes in the earth. 

Get the full particulars now. Mail this coupon today. 

CANADIAN KEYES FIBRE COMPANY LTD. 
HANTSPORT, NOVA SCOTIA 





Please provide me with details of the variety and costs of Royal 
CHINET food service products. 


NAME_ 

COMPANY or CAMP 
ADDRESS _ 


CITY 






AS ADVERTISED IN CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 




























