















CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 

Suite 203, 102 Eglinton Ave. East 
Toronto 315, Ontario, Canada 
(416) 486-8630 

Honorary President Pr6sidente honoraire 
Miss Mary S. Edgar 

President Pr6sident 

Mr. John Latimer, 102 Eglinton Ave. E., 
Suite 203, Toronto 315, Ont. 

Regional Vice-Presidents 

Vice-Presidents r6gionaux 

Mr. John Hasell, 1616 W. 7th Ave. 
Vancouver, B.C. 

Mrs. Eileen Mayotte, 87 Coldwell Rd., 
r Regina, Sask. 

Mr. Jack Pearse, 274 Shakespeare Dr., 
Waterloo, Ont. 

Mr. Robert Lazanik, 5165 Sherbrooke St. W. 
Suite 316, Montreal 260, Que. 

Mr. Robert Cameron, Recreation & Parks 
Dept., City Hall, Main St., Moncton, N.B. 
Secretary Secr6taire 

Mr. Jay Haddad, 1685 Somme Ave., 
Windsor, Ont. 

Treasurer Tr6sorier 

Mr. Bryan Graham, McDonald Currie & Co., 
120 Adelaide St. W., Toronto, Ont. 

Past President L'ex-pr6sident 

The Rev. David Hartry, 

Diocese of Nassau of the Bahamas 
P.O. Box N107, Nassau, N.P., Bahamas 
Committee Chairmen Pr6sidents des comit6s 
Canadian Camping Magazine 
Mr. Bill Henderson, 1162 Bay Street 
Toronto 181, Ont. 

National Camping Day 
Mr. Doug Dent, 145 Lincoln Road, 
Waterloo, Ont. 

Standards 

Mr. Hank Roessingh, 540 — 49 Ave. S.W., 
Calgary 6, Alta. 

Fund Raising 

*~ x Mr. Grant McKeen, 1309 McLean Drive, 
Vancouver 6, B.C. 

Canoe Schools 

t Mr. Claude Cousineau, 

School of Physical Education & Recreation, 
University of Ottawa,Ottawa KIN 6N5, Ont. 
Constitutional Task Force 
Mr. Stanley Wild, 740 Avenue Road, 
Toronto 7, Ont. 

Publications 
Mr. Brian Blackstock, 

Mazinaw Lake Outdoor Education Centre, 
Cloyne, Ont. 

Outdoor Education 
Mr. Robert Cameron, 

Recreation and Parks Dept., City Hall, 
Main St., Moncton, N.B. 

Editorial Committee Comit6 de redaction 
Bill Henderson (Chairman), Bob Attfield, 
Brian Blackstock, Jean Darrach, 
Eanswythe Flynn, Bruno Morawetz, 
Jocelyn Palm, Ann Prewitt, Paul Rushton, 
Kirk Wipper 


TABLE OF CONTENTS -SOMMAIRE 


Vol. 25 No. 1 

Fall Issue 1972 edition d'automne 

A MESSAGE FROM THE EDITOR . 3 

A LETTER FROM THE PRESIDENT . 4 

40 PROMOTIONAL TECHNIQUES . 5 

DO IT NOW! . 6 

HAVE A "WIGWAS TEIMAN" IN YOUR CAMP . 7 

MONEY IN THE BANK . 8 

NATURE IS FUN . 9 

OUTDOOR COOKERY .10 

TIPS .11 

HAVE YOU HEARD? DO YOU KNOW?.12 

IN MEMORIAM - A TRIBUTE TO MISS MARY G. HAMILTON .13 

AN INDIAN VERSION OF THE TWENTY-THIRD PSALM . 14 

THE COUNSELLOR IN THE PUBLIC EYE . 15 

GUIDELINES FOR JOB NEGOTIATION . 16 

APPROACHING CAMP RENTALS .18 

Cover Coverture 

Courtesy of Dr. & Mrs. J. Harry Ebbs 
Taylor Statten Camps 


CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 

Published 4 times a year 
By The Canadian Camping Association 
Subscription rates: $3—1 year, $8 — 3 years 
(Distributed free to members) 

$1—a single copy 

Editor 6ditrice 

Miss Helen E. Stewart 
Apt. 510, 240 Markland Drive 
Etobicoke 652, Ontario 
(416) 621-3791 

Advertising Manager chef de la publicity 
Mr. Paul Rushton 


Provincial Offices Bureaux provinciaux 

B.C. Camping Association — 1309 McLean 
Drive, Vancouver 6, B.C. (Mr. Grant 
McKeen, Pres.) 

Alberta Camping Association — 2402 - 27 St. 
S.W. Calgary, Alta. T3E 2G3 (Miss Jan 
James, Pres.) 

Saskatchewan Camping Association — P.O. 
Box 823, Regina, Sask. (Mrs. Eileen 
Mayotte, Pres.) 

Manitoba Camping Association — 672 
Niagara St., Winnipeg, Man. R3N0W1 
(Mr. Arnold Cohen, Pres.) 

Ontario Camping Association— 102 Eglinton 
Ave. East, Suite 203, Toronto 315, Ont. 
(Mr. Ron Johnstone, Pres.) 

L'association des camps du Quebec, and 
Quebec Camping Association — 952 


Cherrier St., Montreal, Quebec. (Mr. 
Robert Lazanik, pr6s.) 

English section: 2233 Belgrave Ave., 
Montreal 261, Que. (Mr. Zave Ettinger, 
Pres.) 

Section franpaise: 952 rue Cherrier, Mont¬ 
real, Qu^. (Rev. P£re Rosaire Corbin, 
pres.) 

Nova Scotia Camping Association — P.O. 
Box 1622, Halifax, N.S. (Rev. David 
Boston, Pres.) 

New Brunswick Camping Association — 
Recreation & Parks Dept., City Hall, 
Main St., Moncton, N.B. (Mr. Robert 
Cameron, Pres.) 

Newfoundland & Labrador Camping Associ¬ 
ation — P.O. Box 4009, St. John's, Nfld. 
(Rev. Levi Mehaney, Pres.) 


2 


















A Message from the Editor 

A nos lecteurs franpais 


I inherited no statement of editorial policy with my 
appointment as editor of Canadian Camping. Perhaps such 
a policy should be formulated and brought to the attention 
of our readers. 

In the meantime, I welcome your suggestions and con¬ 
structive criticism. Unless we hear from you, how can the 
editorial committee know your needs and desires? We want 
the magazine to serve camping across Canada and be of 
value to everyone involved. 

We have asked the President of CCA to provide us with 
a list of the types of camps in every province and the 
number in each category. This will help us to know the 
interests of our readers. 

We are determined that the magazine shall relate not 
only to camp directors old and new, but to counsellors, 
senior staff and anyone involved in camping. The articles in 
this magazine should be of value, interest and assistance to 
all those concerned with children’s camping. 

We must search high and low for the best material we 
can find. We welcome the help of every camp person who 
can submit material to us for editorial consideration. We 
are not concerned whether the article is written by a camp 
director, a counsellor or a maintenance man. What we want 
is material that will be of real value. 

We will be on the alert for new subject matter and ideas 
for improving the format. With a small committee (if you’d 
care to join, we’d welcome you) and being human, we are 
sure to err sometimes but we sincerely trust it will not be 
too often. We hope to be able to interest some of our 
advertisers in displaying their wares bi-lingually. If you 
have an idea for a new column, let us hear from you. 

Our committee wants the magazine to be the instrument 
proclaiming children’s camping across Canada but to pro¬ 
duce it and make it worthwhile, we need your interest and 
earnest support. 

Helen E. Stewart, 
Editor 


Lors de ma nomination au poste d’editrice de “Canadian 
Camping”, je n’ai pas re^u de reglements definis concernant 
la conduite de la revue. Peut-etre que des reglements 
devraient etre formules et presentes a nos lecteurs. 

Entre temps, vos suggestions et critiques seront appre- 
ciees. II nous faut vos suggestions pour connaitre vos 
interets. Nous voulons que cette revue serve au camping 
partout au Canada et soit de valeur a tous ceux qui sont 
engages. 

Nous avons demande au president de la CCA de nous 
envoyer une liste des differentes categories de camps au 
Canada et le nombre dans chaque categorie. Ceci nous 
aidera a mieux connaitre les interets de nos lecteurs. 

Notre revue saura interesser non seulement les directeurs 
de camp anciens et nouveaux, mais aussi les conseillers, le 
personnel superieur et tous ceux engages dans le camping. 
Les articles devraient etre de valeur, d’interet et d’aide a 
ceux qui s’occupent du camping pour enfants. 

Nous devons faire l’impossible pour trouver le meilleur 
materiel. Peu importe qu’un article soit ecrit par un direc- 
teur de camp, un conseiller ou celui qui s’occupe de 
l’entretien. Ce que nous voulons c'est du materiel d’une 
valeur reelle. 

Nous sommes a la recherche de nouveaux sujets et de 
nouvelles id6es pour ameliorer le format. Avec un comite 
(vous etes la bienvenue de joindre ce comite) et etant 
humains, nous sommes certain de s’ecarter du sujet quelques 
fois, mais nous avons confiance que $a ne se produira pas 
trop souvent. Nous esperons pouvoir interesser les gens a 
nous envoyer des articles en fran^ais. Si vous avez des idees, 
ecrivez-nous. 

Notre comite veut que cette revue soit 1’instrument 
qui fera connaitre le camping pour enfants au Canada. C’est 
pourquoi nous avons besoin de votre interet et votre appui. 

Helen E. Stewart, 

Ed i trice 


'tyef tye! 


Attention! 

We need your assistance - 

We want to compile a songbook and make it 
w available to all camps in Canada. You must have 


All Camp Directors 


For the sake of compiling statistics in camping across 

a popular camp song. Would you please send in to the 


Canada, it is vital that you forward to the C.C.A. 

magazine the words and list the tune of your camp 


Office the following: 

song so that it can be shared across Canada. 


1. The questionnaire mailed to you from Ottawa. 

When you submit an article to the magazine, A 


2. Two copies of your camp brochure — they are 

have some glossy, black and white snaps 


needed for the C.C.A. Archives and for display 

accompany it. 


at the February Conference at Geneva Park. 


3 




A Letter from the President 


This issue of “Canadian Camping'’ is the first produced 
under the direction of its new Chairman, Bill Henderson, 
and new Editor, Helen Stewart. I wish them the best of luck 
and thank Don Groff and Ann Prewitt for the tremendous 
work they did in the past with our Magazine. 

As we conclude one camping season and start a new 
one, and as I look back on what has been happening in 
camping over the past year, many thoughts come to mind. 
Recently our relationships with the Federal Government 
seem to be much closer and those in Ottawa, with whom 
we have been in constant touch, seem to be much more 
aware of the problems we are facing in maintaining an 
effective, beneficial organization. As far as the Provinces 
are concerned, the Executive (which is truly a National 
one) appears to have much closer and more meaningful 
contact and hopefully this becomes important in offering 
guidance and support to each individual Provincial Associa¬ 
tion. 

A Constitution is usually quite a dull document, but the 
more we work on it. the more we realize its value and 
importance. Stan Wild, Chairman of the Constitutional Task 
Force, has done a great job in leading his Committee so that 
in the near future, we hope C.C.A. will have a workable, 
practical constitution. 

Brian Blackstock is now chairing a new Committee on 
Publications. There are countless articles, books and other 
papers which should be brought to the attention of Camp 
Directors across Canada and soon we will be circulating 
this information to everyone, with the first release of such 
articles soon to be available. In addition, revenue from the 
sale of these items will help to raise money for C.C.A. — 
hopefully keeping the fees down! 

Throughout the spring and summer, your C.C.A. Execu¬ 
tive has kept in close touch with the Canadian Government 
on matters regarding the Opportunities for Youth Pro¬ 
gramme. We have expressed deep concern over some of the 
projects relating to children and camping which were sub¬ 
mitted to the Government and we now hope that we can 
convince the responsible authorities to maintain a much 
closer liaison with C.C.A. - so we may offer our guidance 
and experience in helping them select only those leaders 
who are qualified and experienced. It is also our hope that 
we can somehow convince the Secretary of State to con¬ 
sider granting funds to Organizations so that we may in 
turn, select certain young people to do projects which we 
feel are worthwhile and beneficial. As it stands now. 
National Organizations are not permitted to submit project 
proposals. 

Throughout the year, we also endeavoured to clarify the 
situation regarding Unemployment Insurance regulations. 
The Canadian Company Association is continuing to follow 
up this situation with the Government.* 

On a more positive note, I welcome two new members to 
the Executive of C.C.A. - John Hasell of the Outward 
Bound Camps has been selected as Regional Vice-President 
representing British Columbia and Jay Haddad of Windsor 
has been appointed Secretary. John and Jay replace Tanya 
Krisman and Rick Bendera who did a great job for our 
Association. 

Looking to the future, there is much to be done and 
there are many concerns which need to be discussed and a 
great number of problems to be solved. Camping is having 


difficulties and it is now our job to seek out the reasons 
and endeavour to overcome the causes. Government legis¬ 
lation and “red tape"; increased operational and land costs; 
more competition; more alternatives for parents and chil¬ 
dren; less public awareness; higher standards . . . the list 
could go on and on and it therefore becomes the respon¬ 
sibility of every Camp Director in Canada to become more 
involved and more supportive of their own Provincial 
Associations, for if these associations become weak and 
without meaning, then camping is indeed in trouble. 

Camping is unique. Camping offers to a child something 
which can be found in no other situation. Camping can be 
an investment in the future of every child who attends one 
of the many fine camps in Canada. We can't let Camps die 
out ... in fact we must do everything in our power to make 
them grow, become stronger and more meaningful. This 
depends on you and I now . . . not tomorrow. We are being 
threatened and we must do something about it! 

Une Lettre du 
President 

Ce numero de “Camping Canadien" est le premier sous 
la conduite du nouveau president du comite Bill Henderson 
et de la redactrice en chef Helen Stewart. Je leur souhaite 
bonne chance et je veux aussi remercier Don Groff et Ann 
Prewitt du magnifique travail qu’ils ont accompli. 

Terminant une saison de camping pour en commencer 
une autre et faisant un retour sur le passe, plusieurs idees 
me viennent a fesprit. Recemment nos relations avec le 
gouvemement federal semblent meilleures et nos contacts 
a Ottawa semblent conscients des problemes que nous con- 
frontons a soutenir une organisation effective et profitable. 
Les rapports entre Fexecutif (qui est vraiment national) et 
les provinces semblent Stre plus significatifs, ce qui nous 
donne Fassurance de pouvoir offrir de la direction et du 
soutien a chaque association provinciate. 

Habituellement une constitution est un document assez 
lourd mais plus on Felabore, plus on realise son importance. 
Stan Wild, president de comite “Constitutional Task Force" 
a fait un travail excellent avec son comite" et nous esperons 
que FA.C.C. aura bientot une constitution pratique et 
realisable. 

Brian Blackstock preside maintenant un nouveau co¬ 
mite de publications. Ilya d’innombrables articles, livres et 
brochures qui devraient ttre portts Fattention des direc- 
teurs de camping au Canada. Une liste de ces documents sera 
preparee et distribute a tout le monde. De plus, le revenu 
des ventes de ces articles sera au benefice de FA.C.C. — 
nous esperons pouvoir baisser les frais. 

Au printemps et durant tout Fete, Fextcutif de FA.C.C. 
a ete en contact constant avec le gouvemement federal con- 


4 


cernant les programmes Perspective Jeunesse. Nous avons 
exprime nos inquietudes au sujet de certains programmes 
pour les enfants et le camping soumis au gouvernement et 
nous esperons pouvoir convaincre les autorites d’avoir un 
meilleur contact avec l’A.C.C. afin que nous puissions 
offrir notre experience et direction dans le choix de chefs 
qualifies. Nous esperons aussi pouvoir convaincre le Secre¬ 
tariat d’Etat de donner des fonds aux organisations afin 
que nous puissions en retour choisir des jeunes capables de 
mener a bonne fin des projets qui en valent la peine. Presen- 
tement les organisations nationales ne peuvent pas soumettre 
de projets. 

Nous avons aussi essayS de clarifier la question concer- 
nant les rbglements sur l’assurance cjiomage. L’A.C.C. va 
continuer ses discussions avec le gouvernement. 

Sur une note plus positive, je souhaite la bienvenue h 
deux nouveaux membres sur l’executif de l’A.C.C. — John 
Hassell des camps “Outward Bound” a ete choisi vice-pre¬ 
sident regional representant la Colombie Britannique et Jay 
Haddad de Windsor qui a dt6 nomme secretaire. John et Jay 
remplacent Tanya Krisman et Rich Bendera qui ont fait un 
travail magnifique pour notre association. 

L’A.C.C. a beaucoup a faire et a un grand nombre de 
problemes a discuter et a resoudre. Le camping a des dif- 
ficultes et c’est a nous d’en trouver la cause et d’y remedier. 
Les reglements gouvernementaux et le “red tape”; le cout 
plus elev6 des terrains et du maintien des camps; la com¬ 
petition; plus de choix d’activitds pour les parents et les 
enfants; le public de moins en moins informe'; un niveau 
plus elev6 — la liste pourrait etre bien longue. 11 revient 
done a chaque directeur de camp au Canada d’etre plus 
engage et de supporter leur association provinciale. Si nous 
ne nous occupons pas de nos association le camping aura de 
grandes difficultes. 

Le camping est unique. Le camping offre aux enfants 
quelque chose d’irremplajable. Le camping peut etre un 
investissement dans la vie d’un enfant. Nous ne pouvons 
pas le laisser disparaTtre. Nous devons faire tout notre pos¬ 
sible pour augmenter son importance et sa necessite. Ceci 

depend de nous.au jourd’hui et non pas demain. Nous 

sommes menaces et nous devons nous defendre. 



: \ 


ill 


40 PROMOTION TECHNIQUES 
TO AID 

CAMP PUBLIC RELATIONS 

WITH CAMPERS 

1. Personal visits 

2. Camp reunions 

3. Personal letters 

4. Camp movies 

5. Camp newspaper 

6. Birthday and special cards 

7. Camp folders and catalogs 

8. Letters from old campers 

9. Get-acquainted parties 

10. "T" shirts with camp name 

11. Phone calls from director 

12. Word of mouth promotion 

13. Campers recommend friends 

WITH PARENTS 

14. Personal visits 

15. Direct mail 

16. Camp movies 

17. Camp folders, catalogs 

18. Camp newspaper 

19. Phone calls from director 

20. Staff and parent contacts 

21. Maintained year-round contact 

22. Show special interest in child 

23. Camp reunions 

WITH ALUMNI 

24. Camp newspaper 

25. Contact and correspondence 

26. Invitations to reunion 

27. Invitations to visit camp 

28. Gifts to new babies 

29. Encourage friendships 

30. Camp folders, catalogs 

31. Use as staff members 

32. Contacts in college years 

33. Letters on special occasions 

34. Personal visits 

WITH THE HOME COMMUNITY 

35. Social and civic involvement 

36. Work on community projects 

37. Use newspaper, radio and TV 

38. Speak to groups, show pictures 

39. Work with local youth groups 

40. Join the Provincial Camping Association 


f: v-:| 


S-S 


Adapted with permission from the AC A Camping Magazine • 


5 













Do it Now! 

A Camp Director’s Check List 

by Eanswythe Flynn, 

Camp Brigadoon 


Just as the wise housewife prepares 
a shopping list if she is to remember all 
her food and staple necessities of daily 
living, so the camp director can keep 
his/her own check-list of monthly or 
seasonal duties. 

In each issue of Canadian Camping, 
the Editorial Committee will propose 
a quarterly outline of necessary prepa¬ 
rations for the camping season to 
come. These have been simply jotted 
down as suggestions that other direc¬ 
tors have made. It follows naturally 
that you add your own, using this list 
as a basis: 

NOVEMBER 

On last visit to camp check cabins for 
mice nests, broken windows, etc. 

When leaves have fallen check for 
necessary tree cutting and brushing. 
Make follow-through arrangements 
with maintenance staff or local woods¬ 
man who “knows how". 

Re-print camp folder, using new photo¬ 
graphs and copy if necessary. 

Check supply of letterhead and envel¬ 
opes, statement forms and any other 
needed stationery. What about staff 
contracts and camp contract forms, 
invoices? 

Plan Camp Reunion during Christmas 
holidays? Perhaps a theatre party or 
another kind of special event: include 
parents as well. 

Review camp activities for new ideas, 
new skills, new programme emphases. 

DECEMBER 

Order and prepare for mailing all 
Christmas Cards. 

Have maintenance staff prepare for 
winter . . . watch for snowload on 
roofs, fallen trees, care of water supply 
in winterized buildings, sagging hydro 
wires. 

Agency camps should investigate the 
availability of surplus commodities and 
supplies. These can be available for the 
asking, but requests should be in early. 
This includes “scraps" from arts and 
crafts supply houses, linoleum and 
carpet ends, clearance of fire-damaged 
goods which can be used in arts and 
crafts, drama, etc. 

Take some responsibility with your 
provincial camping association, and 
remember that your suggestions, from 


your province, or news of happenings 
in your own Association will be of the 
greatest interest to readers of Canadian 
Camping Magazine across Canada. 

JANUARY 

A season for business details . . . 
income tax forms and reports, revised 
camp folders and forms; re-check new 
supplies of letterhead, envelopes, state¬ 
ment forms, etc. 

Order crests, pennants, camp T-shirts, 
postcards, etc. 

Mail camp folders when they arrive 
from printer. 

Arrange special programme for camp 
reunion; make attractive invitation, 
and mail two weeks before event. 
Prepare progress letter to campers, 
giving camp news about campers and 
staff. 

Engage staff, nurse and doctor for the 
summer as soon as possible. Have con¬ 
tracts signed and sealed. 

Get last year's staff members together 
to ask for suggestions for the summer, 
special projects for campers, new ideas 
for programme, new canoe routes or 
out-trip hikes to new sites. 

Arrange a meeting with camp cook to 
check on additional food supplies, 
menu changes, any kitchen supplies in 
need of replacement. 

Arrange for out-of-town interviews, or 
send instructions and names of pros¬ 
pective and former campers to repre¬ 
sentative. 

FEBRUARY 

Arrange for staff attendance at provin¬ 
cial Camping Conferences. 

Check with in-town and out-of-town 
schools regarding closing dates and 
arrange camp dates accordingly. 

Keep working on staff interviews. Con¬ 
sult local Counsellor Placement 
Bureaux. 

Review and prepare rules for counsel¬ 
lors regarding duties, responsibilities, 
time off, behaviour in camp and out of 
camp, supervision of campers and 
cabins, and discuss them with staff 
during interviews. 

Make plans for in-town counsellor 
training. 

Make initial contacts with food sup¬ 
pliers and order early. Arrange with 


nearest greengrocer, milk supplier and 
bakery for all necessary summer deli¬ 
veries. 

Get in touch with maintenance staff to 
see about necessary repairs to buildings 
or boats or any additional tent floors 
or cabins necessary for summer use. 

These suggestions have been com¬ 
piled from the experiences of many 
camp directors. a 



Approaching Camp Rentals 

Corn'd. from Page 18 

our camp facilities is the most effective 
publicity agent which we can possibly 
come up with. Each of these publicity 
agents will give either favourable or 
unfavourable reports to parents, teach¬ 
ers, friends, etc. Children who are 
themselves potential campers for our 
own programs and, at the same time, 
potential agents for getting other 
campers are not going to differentiate 
between our camp program and what¬ 
ever happens to them while they are 
part of any group using our facilities. 
By assisting other groups to use our 
facilities in the best way possible, we 
are not only affecting individuals that 
one time but, we are opening up the 
possibility of their returning and 
perhaps bringing others with them as 
part of rental groups or to participate 
in our own summer camp program. If 
we really want the opportunity to 
turn on as many people as possible - 
children, youth, or adults - to the 
exciting world of camping, then we will 
be willing to expend the effort neces¬ 
sary to arrive at and carry out an 
effective rental policy. a 


6 


Have a “Wigwas Teiman”* 
in your Camp 

After a few strokes, Chief Com- 
manda turned to me and said: “Claude, 
1 think that you are more Indian than 
me with the paddle”; what a compli¬ 
ment when you first paddle your own 
birch bark canoe. 

William Commanda. Traditional 
Chief of the Algonkin Nation of North 
America, is still building “wigwas tei¬ 
man” on his Maniwaki Reserve, some 
90 miles north of Ottawa. 

The materials used in the construc¬ 
tion of this algonkin model are: white 
cedar for the frame, birch bark for the 
covering, ash for the thwarts, black 
spruce roots for the lashing,and spruce 
gum mixed with animal fat for the 
pitch. 

This past summer, a few camps had 
the opportunity to acquire a Com¬ 
manda birch bark canoe. It has been 
used on ceremonial occasions and for 
pleasure paddling by the more ad¬ 
vanced canoeists. Along with the show¬ 
ing of the new N.F.B. film “Cesar and 
his birch bark canoe”, it brings an 
interesting contribution to the cultural 
dimension of the canoeing programme. 

Claude Cousineau 
Department of Recreology 
University of Ottawa 

*“Wigwas teiman": birch bark canoe in the 
algonkin language. 


Un “Wigwas Teiman”* 
dans votre Camp 

Apres quelques coups d'aviron, le 
chef Commanda sc tourna et me dit: 
“Claude tu es aussi indien que moi 
avec Paviron”; quel compliment a re- 
cevoir, surtout lorsqu'on essaie son 
canot d’ecorce pour la premiere fois. 

William Commanda est le Chef 
Traditionnel de la Nation des Algon- 
kins de PAmerique du Nord. II vit a la 
Reserve Indienne pres de Maniwaki, 
ou il fabrique ses “wigwas teiman”. 

Les materiaux qiPil emploie sont: 
du cedre blanc pour la structure prin- 
cipale, de Pecorce de bouleau pour le 
revetement, du frene pour les barres 
d’ecartement, des racines d'epinette 
noire pour les coutures et de la gomme 
de sapin melangee avec de la graisse 
d’animal pour Pimpermeabilisation. 

Cet ete, quelques camps eurent 
Poppcrtunite d’acquerir un canot du 
Chef Commanda. Le canot servit sur¬ 
tout lors de certaines ceremonies et 
pour le plaisir des plus enthousiastes 
canotiers. Utilise avec le recent film 



Chief Commanda showing Gaston 
Lemire , instructor at the C.C.A. Canoe¬ 
ing School, the art of canoe making. 


Le Chef Commanda explicant a Gaston 
Lemire, instructeur a I’dcole de canotage de 
I'A.C.C., les complications de la construction 
d'un canot d'tcorce. 



Algonkin model built in July '72 by 
Chief Commanda (Taken at the Univer¬ 
sity of Ottawa Camp). 


Model algonkin construit par le Chef Com 
manda durant Fete '72 (photo prise au 
Camp de F University d ’Ottawa). 



de PO.N.F. “Cesar et son canot d'ecor- 
ce” une telle acquisition apporte une 
interessante contribution a la dimen¬ 
sion culturellc d'un programme de 
canotage. 

Claude Cousineau 
Departement de Recreologie 
Universite d'Ottawa 

*Terme algonkin, pour designer un canot 
d’£corce. 



The respectful feeling of paddling a 
birch bark canoe , (taken at the Univer¬ 
sity of Ottawa Camp). 

Sensation respectueuse d'avironner un canot 
d'ecorce. (photo prise au Camp de l'Uni¬ 
versite d’Otta \va). 


7 








Money in the Bank— —Budget, or else... 

C. Labbett, 

Director, Camp Oconto 


The Captain of a ship must chart 
his course across the sea in order to 
reach his destination and in the same 
manner a camp director must chart his 
financial course to guide him through 
the year. Storms, other ships, fog and 
other emergencies may cause the cap¬ 
tain to deviate from his original course 
and destination, but, as soon as possible 
he will return to his original course. 
The program director of a camp has a 
broad plan in his mind of what he 
wishes to accomplish during the sum¬ 
mer and while he may deviate from it 
at various times he still comes back to 
his original plan and continues to his 
goal. Without a financial path to follow 
and a goal to reach, the financial aspect 
of camping is like a ship without a 
course or destination to reach. 

This article is planned to give you 
some idea of how a budget can be set 
up and used as a tool in reaching the 
financial goal. It will not cover this 
very large subject entirely by any 
means, and the remarks made will be 
in a general sense so that you will have 
to make allowances or adjustments for 
yolir particular camp or the province 
in which you operate. 

For camps that have been in opera¬ 
tion a few years and have kept a proper 
set of books, the drawing up of a 
budget is a simple matter. If you do 
not have books of account to keep, a 
proper written record of receipts and 
expenses, you would be wise to hire an 
accountant to advise you in this re¬ 
spect - it will be money well spent. 
The accountant can. if you wish, check 
your books once a year, help you with 
income tax and also answer any ques¬ 
tions you may have from time to time. 
The Department of National Revenue 
requires that you keep a written record 
of your business transactions in such a 
manner that they can be examined and 
understood by a government auditor 
at any time of the year. The Unemploy¬ 
ment Insurance Commission and the 
Ontario Workmen's Compensation 
Board also maintain auditors who may 
examine your salary and wage records 
at any time. 

The first item to consider for a 
budget is Income and Receipts. The 
number of campers multiplied by the 
fee they will be paying, plus any tuck 
revenue, grants or other moneys re¬ 
ceived will make up this side of the 


Budget. Be conservative here it is 
better to err on the short side than be 
too optimistic and then not have the 
enrollment you hoped for. 

The Expenditure side can be classi¬ 
fied under the following headings 
give or take a few depending upon your 
particular camp and its operation. 
These headings may vary from year to 
year as your experience grows and 
conditions change. Also, the more 
detail you can have the better to pin¬ 
point any items getting out of line. 

I would suggest you list them one 
under another with the amount of 
money off to the right of each item. 
The words in brackets are by way of 
explanation. 

Food 

Salaries and Wages (can be broken 
down into counsellors, kitchen, 
maintenance) 

Supplies (can also be broken into de¬ 
partments but will cover such items 
as soap, toilet paper, infirmary sup¬ 
plies, nails, brooms, ad infinitum) 
Insurance (fire, auto, burglary, busi¬ 
ness interruption, etc.) 

Repairs and Maintenance 
Telephone & Telegraph 
Fees and Donations 
Printing 
Office Supplies 
Office Rent 

Red Cross and Royal Life Saving 
Society Examination Fees 
Travelling Expenses 
Publicity and Advertising 
Light. Heat and Power 
Tuck Purchases 
Vehicle Expenses 
Boat Expenses 
Freight and cartage 
Taxes, Mortgage or Loan Interest 
Bank Charges 

Unemployment Insurance, Canada 
Pension Plan and Workmeifs Com¬ 
pensation (where applicable) 

General Expense (for any items not 
classified above). 

Food and Wages will be the biggest 
expense items. The cost of your raw 
food can be anywhere from S1.00 to 
SI.75 per day, depending upon many 
factors. Wages for counsellors, kitchen 
and dining room staff and maintenance 
will have to be thoroughly gone into 
and some type of wage scale is desir¬ 
able. Go over last year’s staff and see 
whom you want back, and if they will 


come back, will their salary go up or 
be the same? Then decide how many 
more staff people will be required and 
how much they will have to be paid. 
The other expenses will be easily allo¬ 
cated to their proper column do not 
try and fool yourself by placing them 
in the wrong column such as putting a 
miscellaneous food purchase under 
'‘miscellaneous expenses” instead of 
“food”. The same headings that appear 
in your budget should appear in your 
books so that transposition and com¬ 
parison are easy. Add and balance the 
books weekly or monthly or whenever 
you feel it is necessary to keep you 
well informed of the financial condi¬ 
tion of your camp. Budgets are not 
meant to be absolute ceilings, or Boors 
for that matter, on revenues and ex¬ 
penses but are to be used as a guide to 
allocate the correct amount of money 
to its proper place. If you are on a 
very strict or tight budget and you 
cannot help going over in some depart¬ 
ment due to an emergency, then do 
make up this amount from some other 
department or else get more revenue. 
After the expenses have been deducted 
from the revenue there should be a 
credit balance or profit. 

At this point consideration should 
be given to depreciation or capital cost 
allowance. The Dominion Government 
has tables showing the maximum 
amount that may be taken each year 
for depreciation and a copy of this 
portion of the Income Tax Act may be 
obtained from the Queen’s Printer in 
Ottawa so that it may be kept on file 
for future reference. It is important 
that all items - buildings, canoes, cars, 
to mention a few, be placed in their 
proper categories for depreciation over 
the years. The amount of allowance 
that you take from your gross profit is 
really a credit item as this amount 
should be set aside as a reserve for 
depreciation to purchase new equip¬ 
ment and erect new buildings when the 
existing ones are no longer useful. 

Mortgage or loan repayments could 
be the next item that must be met 
from the current year’s revenue. If 
making a loan for capital requirements, 
make sure you do not agree to make 
principal repayments so high that it 
will take all your remaining revenue to 
meet them. Also, here we must think 
about money for new equipment or 


8 



new buildings to either expand or any profit left, remember - it isn’t all 
improve your camp site and extend yours! All this for the government and 
program possibilities. they don't pay you “a red cent" for 

Remittances to the Federal and doing it. 

Provincial Governments must be kept For a camp that has never operated 
up to date or else you face needless before, many of the items will be pure 
penalties and correspondence about all guess work and there will be many 
the reasons. Tax deductions made from items of expense you never dreamed 
employees. Unemployment Insurance of. However, it is essential that you 
premiums, Canada Pension Plan con- estimate your expected revenue and 
tributions must be totalled each month expenses. Above all be conservative 
and remitted either directly to Ottawa keep your expected revenue on the 
or through your local bank by the 15 th low side and make good allowances for 
of the month following the deduction, your expenses better to end up with 
Read the Unemployment Insurance more profit than you expected than 
rules - they changed on January 1st, none at all. 

1972 and the amount you deduct Consult your accountant as you 
depends upon whether the employee would your doctor or lawyer: he is an 
was subject to deductions in previous expert in his field and can be a valuable 
years. Also, your contribution is now assistant to you in keeping vour books 
1.4 times that of the employee - not straight, a credit balance instead of a 
equal to his. C.P.P. contributions are debit and taxes all paid. * 

matched by the employer. In Ontario, 
sales tax applies.in certain instances, on 
fees and on tuck items the collec¬ 
tions must be remitted by the 23rd of 
the month following their collection. 

Where the fee exceeds $66.50 per week 
and the camper stays less than 30 days, 
sales tax applies to various services 
rendered. However, many camps use 
fee structure and adding 5% of certain 
charges. The method suggested is 2 ( r 
of the total fee. If in doubt about any 
of these items - check with your 
accountant or else make enquiries of 
the particular government department 
concerned. Also, if you are a partner¬ 
ship or a sole proprietorship then your 
personal taxes must be looked after on 
a quarterly basis in advance. If there is 



Langford Canoe Company 

Props.: Mr. & Mrs. Ken Treadwell 
Baysville, Ontario 
Tel: 705-766-2443 

We specialize in quality repairs to 
all types of canoes. 

Pickup and delivery service can be 
arranged within a wide radius of 
our well established canoe work¬ 
shop. viz., Halliburton, Muskoka 
Parry Sound, Temagami etc. 

Phone or write today and avoid 
the seasonal rush. 












TAKE !T 
FOR GRANTED. 

GIBBONS MAKES FINE FOODS. 


GIBBONS FOODS LIMITED 


49 ADVANCE ROAD 


TELEPHONE 239-1421 


TORONTO 18, CANADA 


I 

I 


! 


9 












The growing public concern for the 
environment has dramatically increased 
the relevance of the camp nature pro¬ 
gram. Since the very nature of camp 
operation limits the valuable exchange 
of programming ideas between camps, 
this article attempts to set forth some 
thoughts on organizing and operating a 
nature program in the camp setting. 

The overall approach to the nature 
program is perhaps more important 
than the day to day operation itself. 
Campers come to camp to have fun 
while their parents hope that they will 
acquire knowledge and skills not avail¬ 
able in the city environment. Campers 
spend ten months of each year in the 
classroom which is highly structured 
due mostly to sheer numbers. At camp 
where the number of campers per 
instructor (ideally 6-8) is low, an 
individual discovery oriented approach 
is possible. This does not mean that 
the camp naturalist goes to the nature 
hut each day and waits for his program 
to happen. He will wait a long time! 
It does mean that rather than being 
told the campers are led to discover 
their environment for themselves. In 
actual fact this type of approach re¬ 
quires more planning than a “formal 
lesson". 

How then does one put this philo¬ 
sophy into practice in the day to day 
programming? Let us consider a pond 
study as an example. Step one is to 
scout the territory. Locate a pond and 
discover for yourself what is there. 
You should not be surprised, however, 
if your campers find things you did 
not. Next prepare for your excursion. 
Read all you can about the subject, in 
this case ponds, and be prepared for all 
kinds of questions. Never be afraid to 
say “I don't know", but be sure to 
add “Let's look it up and find out". 
Make sure you have all the necessary 
equipment organized and then you are 
ready. Once on location direct your 
campers' attention to important ob¬ 
servations by asking questions. For 
example a tadpole is caught. What do 
you suppose he finds in this pond to 
eat? How is he able to breathe under¬ 
water? If you are careful before the 
excursion is over your campers will 
have learned some valuable lessons 
about the web of life existing in the 
pond. Be sure to take advantage of 
each learning situation which arises. 
A great blue heron alights in your pond 


Nature is Fun 

by David Keast, 

Camp Ponacka 

but you pass him by because you are 
only looking for frogs today. So was 
the heron and you may have missed a 
golden opportunity. Whatever happens 
be enthusiastic and curious yourself. 
It's contagious. 

The value of live animals to the 
camp nature program cannot be over¬ 
estimated, but a few words of caution 
are in order. Most wild animals are best 
left that way. It is far better to observe 
these animals in their natural habitat. 
Even with the best of care wild animals 
will often sicken and die if kept caged 
for long periods of time. It cannot be 
denied that live trapping is exciting 
and that the close observation of wild 
animals valuable but keep them only 
for a few days. Then let them return 
to their natural homes. With a little 
patience these same wild animals can 
be encouraged to visit your nature hut 
each day for some tasty morsel. There 
is of course the need to be ever mind¬ 
ful of the danger of rabies. This is 
especially true when one considers that 
the main desire of most campers is to 
handle the animals. This desire can be 
fulfilled and the previously mentioned 
problems avoided by stocking the na¬ 
ture hut with a wide variety of domes¬ 
ticated animals. No doubt some purists 
would strenuously object but many 
valuable lessons about animals in 
general can be learned in this way. 
Whenever possible these animals should 
be allowed to roam free. This past 
summer our ducks swam with the 
swimmers, dodged the canoes and sail¬ 
boats and generally endeared them¬ 
selves with everyone in the camp. Over 
the years our menagerie has included 
ducks, turkeys, chickens of various 
types, pheasants, mice, white rats, 
gerbils. guinea pigs, rabbits, and even a 
goat. Every one of these found a place 
in the hearts of our campers and at the 
same time taught them something 
about mammals and birds. This does 
not mean that our nature hut has not 
sheltered its share of wild animals. 
Many wild friends have been our guests 
but only for a few days before they 
were allowed to return to their own 
homes. 

Housing your miniature zoo can 
present problems. One of the handiest 
and most versatile homes for small 
animals of all sorts is the five gallon 
size aquarium. With appropriate bed¬ 
ding and a screen top they provide a 


most comfortable home for small 
mammals, reptiles, amphibians and 
insects. Since, in most cases, they will 
not need to hold water, second-hand 
aquaria can be purchased at reasonable 
cost. Larger screened cages are needed 
for larger animals and at least one 
walk-in type cage is most useful. Be 
inventive. It is amazing what can be 
adapted to make a comfortable animal 
home. An old wooden horse trough 
has provided very adequate lodging for 
a succession of turtles and frogs and an 
old army tire inflation cage has been 
home to everything from racoons to 
chickens. 

Many other items have proved to be 
valuable additions to our inventory of 
equipment. Among these is a display 
case purchased from an old bakery. 
Everyone needs recognition and our 
display case has provided it. Interest¬ 
ing objects are placed in the case with 
a small sign explaining them and show¬ 
ing the finder's name. Under these 
circumstances it is usually not difficult 
to keep the display area well stocked. 
Other useful items are nets, glass jars 
of various sizes, tightly locking plastic 
garbage pails for feed bins, weather 
equipment, and a couple of good 
microscopes. 

Perhaps, however, one of the most 
important items to have is a good 
reference library. No one person can 
be expected to know all there is to 
know about nature. Campers should 
be encouraged to look things up for 
themselves. You will therefore need 
several good, easy to use reference 
books on such subjects as weeds, 
flowers, trees, mammals, birds, rep¬ 
tiles, amphibians and plants. You will 
also need a place to house these books 
so that they are accessible to all. 

Specific program ideas are numer¬ 
ous and to a large extent dependent on 
the natural environment in which the 
camp is located. Regardless, the camp 
naturalist should attempt to expose 
the campers to as many different 
natural communities as possible. With 
the cooperation of your program direc¬ 
tor you can take out trips to nearby 
wooded areas, grasslands, ponds, 
streams or swamps. Remember that 
the greatest variety of both plant and 
animal life will occur at the border 
area between two different communi¬ 
ties. In each case attempt to empha¬ 
size the way in which all the natural 


ID 





world is drawn together in a web of 
life. Sensory awareness games are an¬ 
other useful and fun program idea. We 
have become far too dependent on our 
senses of sight and hearing. Let your 
campers do without these for a few 
minutes and attempt to identify 
objects by their feel and smell. It’s fun 
and at the same time instructive. 

One program idea which has proved 
to be immensely popular is survival 
foods. This is one idea you might want 
to take up in conjunction with your 
canoeing and campcraft staffs. Both 
you and your campers will be amazed 
at the wonderful delicacies you can 
find on your very doorstep. Make a 
day of it and then enjoy the results. 

A whole host of books with pro¬ 
gram ideas for the camp naturalist are 
available. Two of the best are 200 Out¬ 
door Science Activities available from 
the Ontario Teachers' Federation, 
1260 Bay Street. Toronto 185 and 
Playground Activities Nature Study 
published by the Federation of Ontario 
Naturalists, 1262 Don Mills Road. Don 
Mills. Ontario. Both these books con¬ 
tain excellent lists of resource books 
as well as program ideas. 

The camp nature program can be 
the most interesting and rewarding of 
all. The infinite variety and drama of 
our natural environment is waiting for 
those who will partake. a 



FRANKFURTER KABOBS 

Frankfurters, sliced in thirds (luncheon 
meat can be used) 

Dill Pickles (large slices) 

Onions (small ones, sliced) 

Prepared mustard 
Barbecue sauce 
Frankfurter rolls 

Alternate the foods on a green stick (or 
skewer); brush on the desired amount 
of mustard and broil until the frank¬ 
furters are well browned. Push from 
the stick onto an opened and toasted 
roll. Baste with barbecue sauce while 
cooking, if desired. 


MARSHMALLOW 
FRUIT GRILL 

Line a shallow baking pan with foil 
allowing enough to fold across the top 
of the pan. Fill pan with assorted 
fruits. Allow a cup of fruit per serving. 
Then arrange marshmallows on top of 
fruit using 4 marshmallows (or 1/2 cup 
of miniatures) to 1 cup of fruit. Fold 
foil over top of pan and heat on grill 
or in a reflector oven until marsh¬ 
mallows start to melt — about 15 
minutes. Serve plain or over ice cream. 
Suggested fruits: chunk pineapple, 
sliced bananas, plums, apricots, 
cherries, strawberries and melons. 


s4 PieACKt fax youx Stafa ? 

For $3.00 you can send a Subscription to Canadian Camping to one of your Staff members, a gift 
which lasts the whole year. A greeting card will be sent with the donor's name. 

Complete the section below and send with your cheque to: 

The Canadian Camping Association, 

Suite 203, 102 Eglinton Avenue East, 

Toronto 315, Ontario. 

Please send a Christmas Gift Subscription to: 

Name-Name —- 

Address - Address --- 


Name --- Name . 

Address _Address 


Name 


Name _ 


Address 


Address 


11 














































Used motor oil is an excellent wood 
preservative. Apply in the fall with a 
cloth-covered rake. During the winter 
the dirt clears out and can be sat on 
without dirtying clothes. Good for 
docks! 


More about storage ... a few check¬ 
ups before closing the camp gate . . . 

If you shake chloride of lime lightly 
over cabin floors, mice soon get the 
message. Take care that the powder 
does not fall on legs or arms but. more 
important, keep it away from the 
eyes - the smallest amount can give a 
severe bum. In the spring, mop floor 
with warm water for instant disinfec¬ 
tion. 

Cover the tops of all stove pipes, 
chimneys and fireplace pipes to keep 
out bats, birds and other animals. Plug 
the fireplace flue indoors with news¬ 
papers. Be sure to leave signs on stove 
and fireplace warning users to remove 
papers and outside covers before the 
first fire is set alight. 

Turn off all propane tanks accord¬ 
ing to directions. In the spring, test 
lines for leaks but don't use a match! 
Instead, take a can of strong suds and 
with a brush paint over all joints on 


the lines. When the gas is turned on, 
leaks will cause bubbles. If this is indi¬ 
cated, call in your service man at once 
to check the entire propane system. 
Look also for mice nests in the vents - 
one of their favourite homesites. 

When there are trees to be cut down 
and underbrush to remove, wait until 
late autumn when the leaves have 
fallen. This is the time to see where 
shrubbery is thickest, where extra 
limbs should be pruned, where old 
trees are rotting and ready to come 
down, and where trees lean danger¬ 
ously so that they could fall across 
cabins or power lines during the next 
windstorm or blizzard. Have your 
maintenance man bum the debris on 
the ice in the winter. 

Your staff has asked to return to 
camp for a week-end in the fall? 
Don't knock it! Capitalize! Make it a 
work week-end with fun and laughter 
into the bargain. No flies: no mosqui¬ 
toes: no campers underfoot. Get out 
the paint, stain, paint brushes and 
rakes. Buildings are dry, begging for 
paint and preservative. Plant trees. 
Clean up the grounds. Save the even¬ 
ings for relaxation and companionship. 
It's a natural. a 


WANTED CAMP SITE FOR 
SALE OR LEASE 

To accommodate between 100 to 
200 campers. Within a radius of 
175 miles from Toronto situated 
on a lake suitable for waterfront 
activities. 

Indoor plumbing and electricty 
desirable but not essential. 

Reply to: Box 25 
Canadian Camping Magazine 




You're within Saving Distance 
of Beaver at Home or at Camp! 

85 BEAVER LUMBER STORES 
Across Ontario 










• . ▼. 

£ Write for 96 page full-color wholesale athletic goods catalogue. Complete selection of camping, athletic equipment, 

£ uniforms, T-shirts, sweat shirts, awards, etc. £ 

7 

$ ATHLETES WEAR CO. LTD., 546 Main Street, Winnipeg 2, Manitoba $ 

$ I 

i -I 


12 







to 




Doug Dent of the Waterloo Y.M.C.A. is anxious 
to hear from all camp directors who participated in the National 
Camping Day Programme. He wants news clippings, articles, pictures, 
even descriptions of how the day was celebrated, humorous events from fizzled 
out fireworks to burning bows and flameless arrows.. . anything! . .. Jan James is the 
Acting President of the Alberta Camping Association, replacing Joe La Fortune who has been 
appointed to a new pastoral post in Michigan, U.S.A. The ACA seems to have had a busy year, with 
5 new accredited members, bringing the total to 18 accredited camps. Hank Roessingh has been involved 
with Public Relations and Government Relations and John Hanlin has organized a Student Temporary 
Employment Program, gathering historical information tor camping in Alberta ... Don Pringle recently retired from 
the Y.M.C.A. in Regina and has been appointed Director of Camp Pine Crest, Toronto Y.M.C.A. (Saskatchewan people are 
now complaining that they train all the good people and then Ontario grabs them off!). Eileen Mayotte is acting as Interim- 
President for the SC A. This Association is hard at work in drafting a set of standards for accreditation. It is the only provincial 


association that has dealt with environ¬ 
mental protection in their standards 
program, as well as being the only one 
to present briefs (5) on this subject 
regarding specific areas such as the 
Qu’Appelle Basin, Churchill River, 
Peitahigan, to the Provincial Govern¬ 
ment. Don Macaulay has been selected 
as Regional Co-ordinator, Dept, of 
Culture & Youth, for South-Eastern 
Saskatchewan. He is the man who has 
been working on the Standards Re¬ 
port . . . Bob Cameron, President of 
the New Brunswick Camping Associa¬ 
tion, has left the Y.M.C.A. and is now 
with the Recreation and Parks Dept, in 
Moncton . . . Don Beauregard has been 
appointed Executive Director of the 
Quebec Camping Association and Zave 
Ettinger was recently elected President 
of the English Section of the QCA . .. 
Tom Creighton has found it necessary 
to resign as Regional Vice-President 
for the Atlantic Provinces. Tom is now 
teaching in Dartmouth ... John Hasell, 
Director of Outward Bound, Van¬ 


couver, has been selected as a Regiona 
Vice-President of the C.C.A. John wil 
complete the term left vacant follow 
ing the death of Tanya Krisman . 
Jack Pearse is working on the estab 
lishment of a committee to investigate 
ways and means of gathering together 
material which can be compiled into a 
master document on the history of the 
camping movement in Canada . . . Paul 
Rushton of Camp Trailfinder in On¬ 
tario is the new Advertising Manager 
of “Canadian Camping". Anyone who 
has suggestions regarding advertisers 
for the magazine should send names 
and such leads to Paul, c/o C.C.A. 
Office . . . The dates have been set for 
the following annual meetings and 
conferences: 

November 1 and 2 — C.C.A. Constitu¬ 
tional Task Force Meeting in Regina 
November 3 - C.C.A. Executive Meet¬ 
ing in Regina 

November 3 and 4 — Saskatchewan 
Camp Directors Conference in 
Regina 


February 1 to 4 at Geneva Park in 
Ontario: 

C.C.A. Executive Meeting 
National Standards Committee 
Workshop 

National Camp Directors Workshop 
-titled “The Threat to Camping 
-What does Camping have to do 
to survive?" 

March 8 to 10 - Ontario Camping Con¬ 
ference in Toronto 

June 1 to 10 - C.C.A. Canoe Instruc¬ 
tors School - French Section - in 
Ottawa 

June 14 to 23 - English section of the 
Canoe Instructors School — in 
Ottawa. 

We are looking forward to passing on 
to our readers items from these gather¬ 
ings. This column with its news of 
camping individuals across Canada will 
be a feature in the future issues of 
“Canadian Camping". We can only 
report if we are informed. The deadline 
dates for the next three issues are 
Nov. 30, Jan. 31 and March 31. 



Oops ! 

Sorry dear, for « moment- 
I fhou^W I K/a$ Inihtfwrk, 


WANTED A CAMP TO ACCOM¬ 
MODATE 100 PEOPLE THAT HAS 
AT LEAST 100 ACRES WITH LAKE 
FRONTAGE. THE CAMP SHOULD 
BE WITHIN A RADIUS OF 200 
MILES OF TORONTO. 

IF INTERESTED IN SELLING SUCH 
PROPERTY PLEASE WRITE TO: 

SUMMER CAMPS 

158 Eglinton Avenue West 

Toronto 12, Ontario 




13 


















—3fn jHemonam— 

A TRIBUTE TO MISS MARY G. HAMILTON 


It was with deep regret 
that we heard of the death 
of one of Canada's pioneer 
leaders in girls' camping. 

Miss Mary G. Hamilton, in 
July, 1972. 

She was a pioneer in two 
fields: physical education 
and camping. As principal 
of The Margaret Eaton 
School from 1926 through 
1934, and as founder and 
director of Camp Tanama- 
koon from 1925 until 1953, Miss Hamilton influenced 
young women all over Canada and in many other parts of 
the world. From the Margaret Eaton School students she 
demanded perfection and excused no one from the attempt 
to achieve it. This was coupled with a very strong sense of 
right and wrong. Students, teachers, counsellors and camp¬ 
ers all remember encounters with these compelling elements 
of Miss Hamilton's personality. At the same time she 
inspired a fierce loyalty in her associates to whom she was 
known as “Hammy", “Mary G". or “Merrigee". 

Those Margaret Eaton School graduates taught in every 
YWCA and in almost every private school for girls in 
Canada. They taught in high schools and universities, in 


clubs and as independent teachers of dancing and physical 
fitness. Many of them eventually became camp directors. 
Tanamakoon campers are, of course, to be found in every 
field of women’s endeavour. It seems remarkable that so 
many of them have devoted large segments of their lives to 
volunteer work. 

Miss Hamilton was not a person who expressed her thoughts 
in words. She spoke in public only when there was no way 
to avoid doing so. She wrote little. She was apt to give her 
staff direction by pounding her right fist into her left palm 
and saying with extreme urgency: “This is a problem! 
Someone has to do something about it!" And they did. It 
was not by words but by some kind of spiritual osmosis 
that Miss Hamilton's influence was so strongly felt and so 
widely communicated. 

The fact that Miss Hamilton wrote that excellent book, 
“The Call of Algonquin", (Ryerson Press, 1958) recording 
her years at Tanamakoon, is testimony to the depth of her 
feeling for the camp she created. It is also, to the discerning 
reader, testimony to the great gifts she brought to the 
entire field of children’s camping in Canada. 

The fact that her former campers speak of her with loving 
devotion and gratitude for their experiences with her is 
testimony to the magnitude of her contribution to the 
lives of hundreds of young women. 

Elizabeth Ravmer 



linbian 19er£ion of tlje Climitp tKIjirb 

Editor’s Note: This beautiful Indian version originated many years ago with Arizona Indians who translated it into a universal sign 
language in order to share it with members of neighboring tribes who spoke different dialects. A white missionary then retranslated 
it into literal English - Indian style - which is as you see it here. 

The Great Father above a shepherd Chief is. I am His and with Him I want not. He throws out to me a rope and the name of 
the rope is love and He draws me to where the grass is green and the water not dangerous, and I eat and lie down and am 
satisfied. Sometimes my heart is very weak and tails down but He lifts me up again and draws me into a good road. His name 
is WONDERFUL. 

Sometime, it may be very soon, it may be a long, long time. He will draw me into a valley. It is dark there, but I’ll be afraid 
not, for it is in between those mountains that the Shepherd Chief will meet me and the hunger that I have in my heart all 
through this life will be satisfied. 

Sometimes He makes the love rope into a whip, but afterwards He gives me a staff to lean upon. He spreads a table before me 
with all kinds of foods. He puts His hand upon my head and all the “tired” is gone. My cup He fills till it runs over. What I 
tell is true. I lie not. These roads that are “away ahead” will stay with me through this life and after: and afterwards I will go 
to live in the Big Tepee and sit down with the SHEPHERD CHIEF forever. 


14 







The Counsellor in the Public Eye 

by Bruno Morawetz, Ph.D., 

Director, Camp Ponacka 


When a counsellor signs up at a 
camp, he (or she) becomes a member 
of two new communities. He enters 
the community of his new camp, the 
persons at that camp, and the various 
people who live or work nearby. He 
also enters the nation-wide camping 
community, as represented by the 
Canadian and Provincial Camping 
Associations. Whenever the counsellor 
leaves the camp for his day (or night) 
off, he becomes an ambassador-at-large 
for both of these communities. Every 
counsellor, in fact, every staff member, 
ought to be aware of his new role as a 
public relations officer. 

There are two senses of “Public 
Relations”: one good, one bad. The 
bad type of public relations is the 
kind where one tries to “pull the wool 
over peoples' eyes”. In that type, one 
“uses” people for one’s own ends. This 
is not the type of public relations 
which counsellors should, or need, to 
practice. 

The other kind of public relations 
rests on a genuine understanding of 
human nature and a desire to play a 
significant part in the community to 
which one belongs. This is the kind 
which counsellors can and should prac¬ 
tice. A counsellor is essentially an 
educator. He has a powerful influence 
on the children in his camp. In terms 
of hours he probably spends almost as 
much time with them in one month as 
their classroom teacher does in one 
year. The counsellor is more of an idol 
than the teacher and is more likely to 
be emulated. As educators of Canada’s 
No. 1 capital asset (preponderate^ 
Canadian!!), counsellors are real mem¬ 
bers of the teaching fraternity, with 
the obligation of observing their code 
of professional ethics. It often seems 
that young counsellors are not even 
aware of the exalted role they have in 
the shaping of Canada's future. 

Although the main responsibility of 
the counsellor is related to his campers, 
he must not forget the other com¬ 
munities to which he belongs. He 
belongs to the camping movement and 
he should be aware that each Province 
in Canada has its own Camping Associ¬ 
ation which renders invaluable assist¬ 
ance to individual camp directors and 
staffs. Many camp directors are success¬ 
ful in encouraging their staff members 


to play a significant role in the Camp¬ 
ing Associations. Staff members can 
assist at conferences, training sessions 
or committee work, and their view¬ 
points and assistance are most valuable. 
Counsellors should not forget that their 
actions will reflect on the camping 
movement as a whole. It takes only 
one thoughtless counsellor to spoil the 
reputation of hundreds of good coun¬ 
sellors and to drag the whole camping 
movement into disrepute. 

There are a number of pitfalls which 
counsellors are apt to fall into. One of 
the most obvious of these is what you 
might call the “swelled head” syn¬ 
drome. Counsellors rightly feel that 
they are a select group of young 
people in the community. If they 
were not outstanding persons, they 
would not have been chosen by a 
camp director. It is not advisable to 
take advantage of this privileged posi¬ 
tion. For example: on their night off 
they are liable to invade the nearest 
town, full of exuberance and self- 
confidence, but it is hardly fit for them 
to take over a whole lunch counter in 
a restaurant or to talk loudly or over¬ 
bearingly in public places. They should 
remember that the sidewalk belongs to 
other people as well, and that above 
the stores, late at night, people may be 
trying to sleep. 

Another thing that counsellors 
should be made aware of is the sanc¬ 
tity of private property. It is difficult 
for a young person to appreciate what 
it means to have one’s private property 
invaded. Perhaps a counsellor should 
be asked to imagine how he would feel 
if someone walked into his room in 
residence to borrow his guitar or his 
clothes without asking. The hurt does 
not consist in the damage done to the 
borrowed article, but there is a hurt to 
the person whose privacy has been 
invaded. 

Counsellors on many occasions 
must use or cross over private property 
and in almost all cases the owners will 
be only too willing to co-operate, but 
under all circumstances permission 
should first be obtained. If the owner 
is away, it behooves the counsellor to 
ask a next-door neighbour. Generally, 
counsellors must be trained to avoid 
any form of trespassing. Even aban¬ 
doned barns or cabins belong to some¬ 


one and it is a great temptation for 
everyone to let loose at an abandoned 
building. More damage can be done to 
the camp’s reputation if it becomes 
known that they were responsible for 
ransacking such a place. At the camp 
site, creating good public relations 
consists in thinking of the campers who 
will follow you. It is a good idea to 
teach staff not to denude a camp site, 
and better still, to leave a woodpile 
for the next campers. A good camp 
will insist that every camp site used by 
it will be left in better condition than 
it was before. 

There is another temptation which 
invades campers and counsellors and 
that is the desire to collect “trophies”. 
It is rather thoughtless to bring home 
highway signs, cottagers' signs, etc. and 
it does not make for good public rela¬ 
tions. Courtesy to store owners should 
be expected and campers should not be 
permitted by their counsellor to make 
a nuisance of themselves at a littie 
country store. 

There is another group of persons 
to whom the counsellor .should pay 
special regard and that is the mainten¬ 
ance staff. In many camps there is a 
permanent local man who lives near 
the camp the year round, and he 
deserves their undivided respect, and 
usually, their admiration. In most 
cases, this man could teach the coun¬ 
sellors a great deal of what they cannot 
pick up at college. The same applies to 
the many people in the north who eke 
out their living by dint of hard work 
and ingenuity. They, too, deserve a 
greater measure of respect than many 
a professional. 

The man who delivers supplies to 
the camp will always welcome some 
help to unload his truck. Generally, 
courtesy and consideration are the two 
main ingredients for the creation of 
good public relations. 

A few remarks now about public 
relations within the camp itself . . . 
Your fellow staff members deserve the 
same consideration that you would 
accord to strangers. It does not make 
for good staff esprit de corps if one can 
never be sure of still owning one’s 
belongings. Staff relations are best 
safe-guarded by avoiding gossip, 
“borrowing” or running people down. 
The one person in the camp who needs 


15 


Guidelines for Job Negotiations 

These suggestions have been prepared to assist and advise all applicants in the 
proper procedures when applying for a camp position. 


a particular consciousness is the cook. 
There is no more thankless job than 
cooking. She watches her labour de¬ 
molished in minutes. Every staff mem¬ 
ber ought to remember to say a few 
kind words to the cook to keep her 
spirits up. 

There is one other person who 
needs attention from the counsellors 
and that is the camp director. He has 
an exceedingly difficult task of trying 
to pleasp not only everyone in camp, 
but the parents back home and the 
community which surrounds him. He 
may appear to the counsellor as un¬ 
approachable, distant or forbidding 
but every camp director welcomes a 
staff member who does not treat him 
as a demi-god but as a fellow human 
being. Being a camp director can be a 
very lonely position. 

Finally, a word about public rela¬ 
tions with campers’ parents. 

There is a tendency to regard 
“Parent Day” or parent visits as a 
nuisance. A young counsellor can 
hardly be expected to appreciate how 
much a visit to the youngster means 
to the parents. They drive for hun¬ 
dreds of miles to see their child and to 
meet his counsellor; they have battled 
traffic and are exhausted when they 
finally arrive and so their presence 
should not go unnoticed. Since most 
youngsters do not write explicit letters 
home, counsellors should be prepared 
to fill parents in on the details of the 
camper’s stay. A letter to parents who 
are not visiting the camp will be greatly 
appreciated ana should not be taken 
lightly. 

I have had the experience myself of 
walking into a camp and being passed 
by dozens of campers and staff without 
being greeted, or without being asked: 
“May 1 help you?” It is a most devas¬ 
tating experience and counsellors 
should have the courtesy to greet any 
stranger or help him to find his way. 
There is no detail, no matter how 
small, which does not contribute to 
the sum total of a happy camp. Life is 
a continuous series of small incidents 
and no incident is too small to be 
overlooked. 

A summer at camp should be a 
summer of growing up; not only for 
the camper but also for the staff. The 
lessons learned in the small community 
of a camp are a lesson that grows to 
national importance as youngsters 
become citizens. a 


1. An oral offer by a Director and 
your oral acceptance, at that time, 
binds both you and the Director. 
The contract formalizes your 
arrangements. 

2. If you wish to consider the offer, 
ascertain how soon the Director 
wants a reply. If you take more 
than the allotted time, the position 
may then be given to another appli¬ 
cant. 


3. Once a position has been agreed 
upon by you and the Director, 
either orally or in writing, it is 
unethical for you to apply or con¬ 
tinue negotiations elsewhere. Other 
Directors, with whom you have been 
negotiating, should be notified 
accordingly. 

4. It is unethical for you to “break” 
your contract in order to apply or 
negotiate elsewhere. However, if 
your circumstances have unexpec¬ 
tedly changed since the signing of 
your contract, in a way that would 
make it impractical for you to 
attend Camp, then you should, 
without delay, discuss the situation 
with your Camp Director. He/She 
will usually offer a solution or re¬ 
lease you from your obligation. 

5. Your application fora staff position 
may be rejected for many reasons, 
including one or more of: age, 
school grade, lack of experience, 
previous performance at another 
job, references, your personal inter¬ 
view, no suitable openings available, 
or your unreasonable salary require¬ 
ment in view of age and/or experi¬ 
ence. 


HOW TO APPLY: 

1. a) Obtain as much information as 
possible regarding the Camps in 
which you are interested (determine 
which of them would be the best 
for you, i.e. where you could make 
the greatest contribution). 

b) Make application to the Camp(s) 
of your choice. 

2. a) Complete and return the applica¬ 
tion promptly, making certain that 
all questions are answered accu¬ 
rately, i.e. school grade, references, 
etc. 

b) An interview will be arranged. It 
maybe necessary to allow sufficient 
time for references to be received. 

3. At the interview, answer questions 
frankly and ask questions of your 
own. This is the opportune time to 
determine whether this is the Camp 
for you. Understand your specific 
job responsibilities and duties as 
well as financial arrangements, and 
all Camp policies e.g. bed hours, 
days off, camp dress, smoking, etc. 
Ascertain those services and/or 
tangible benefits that the Camp will 
provide as part of the condition of 
your employment, i.e. laundry, 
transportation, recreation, insurance 
(some of these are taxable benefits). 
Ask to see a copy of the Camp 
Contract. This understanding will 
help to clarify your relationship 
with the Camp. 

4. Remember that the interview need 
not be conclusive for either you or 
the Director. Take the time to con¬ 
sider those pertinent details that 
were discussed during your inter¬ 
view. Do not make a hasty decision. 
Once your decision has been made 
to accept the position offered, there 
should be a written agreement (con¬ 
tract). This agreement should be 
signed and returned promptly. 


It is SINCERELY HOPED that the observance of the foregoing by both Staff 
applicants and Camp Directors will simplify negotiations for staff positions and 
improve Camping standards. 

Editor’s Note: These Guidelines have been printed to assist Camp Directors in Staff negotia¬ 
tion. We thank the Ontario Camping Association for permission to print this 
material. 



16 









If you enjoy working with 
your hands (so many people 
do), then you will appreciate 
the contents of our new 1973 

CRAFT 

CATALOGUE 

and 

IDEA BOOK 


Its 132 pages are full of Craft 
ideas, basic instructions and 
materials you can use during 
your creative leisure hours. 
Many craftworkers consider it 
a reference book on contempor¬ 
ary Arts 'n Crafts. So, if you 
enjoy working with your hands 
and would like a compliment¬ 
ary copy, simply send us your 
name and address. 


284-286 KINK5 ST. WEST, 
TORONTO 2B, CANADA 




On the trail to the ski slopes at Grouse Mountain, North Vancouver, 
British Columbia. (Photo from Canadian Government Travel Bureau.) 



Visitors travel by sleigh from the railway station to their winter resort 
headquarters in the Laurentians of Quebec. (Photo from Canadian Govern¬ 
ment Travel Bureau.) 


17 


















































































Approaching Camp Rentals 

by Theron Kramer 

Director, Camp Edgewood 


You exert almost all of your 
strength on the heavy main switch and 
finally it snaps into place taking the 
skin off the same two knuckles that it 
manages to wound every spring. Then 
you pour water down the long thirsty 
pipe, push another switch and listen to 
the gurgle of fresh well water being 
pumped into the holding tank. With 
that sound you know that another 
season is beginning and in not too 
many weeks the place will be swarm- 
with campers once again. 

You also know that your basic 
costs are beginning now and will run 
until you shut those switches off again. 
Many of these costs will be incurred 
both before and after the fee-paying 
campers are there to cover them. 
Management expenses, caretaker’s sal¬ 
ary, repairs and maintenance after a 
long winter, hydro and perhaps taxes 
are some of the costs which have to be 
met from the beginning. These plus the 
ever-increasing operating expenditures 
force us to examine and re-examine 
how we can possibly run a quality pro¬ 
gram for our campers while at the 
same time keeping our fees within 
reason. This problem is only partially 
dealt with through good budgeting and 
a firm control of the finances by com¬ 
petent management. For the old 
proverb about getting blood out of a 
stone also holds true here and if the 
money is not available then you simply 
cannot hold down camper fees no 
matter how good your fiscal policies. 

More and more non-profit camps 
have turned to the rental field in order 
to help offset some of these basic costs 
and spiraling operational expenses. At 
this point the field is wide open for 
off-season rentals especially as schools 
become more and more conscious of 
the vast learning potential of the out- 
of-doors. It is not only in the field of 
education, however, that rental possi¬ 
bilities exist. At our own camp we have 
had everything from drum and bugle 
corps wishing a remote place in which 
to get in a weekend of practice, to a 
near-by police detachment who wanted 
to give both training and a good time 
to their school patrol children. From 
youth groups to senior citizens, boy 
scouts to church councils, the rental 
possibilities open to ready camping 
facilities are endless and it is no wonder 
that many camps are attempting to 


capitalize on the increasing clamour 
for the use of such facilities. 

But is our need for increased reven¬ 
ues our only concern? Do we not have 
an interest and perhaps even an obliga¬ 
tion to know what types of programs 
these rental groups will be carrying out 
at our camp sites and how these pro¬ 
grams coincide with our own camping 
objectives? Should we be offering not 
only our facilities but also our advice 
and assistance to such groups in order 
that they might make the best use of 
our facilities and get the most out of 
the surroundings that they will be in 
during their stay? One way to deal 
with these questions is to avoid them 
entirely by offering various programs 
ourselves in the off-season to try to 
meet the needs of some of these 
groups. Although this may be the ideal 
solution it is not always feasible, 
especially for smaller operations, and 
does not allow for meeting the diversi¬ 
fied needs of the many groups looking 
for this type of facility. It is also true 
that these groups usually have their 
own leadership and their own objec¬ 
tives and many would certainly not 
look favourably on our replacing either 
one of those. 

Another positive approach to these 
questions is to begin or continue to 
rent to as many groups as possible 
while insisting that we are not strictly 
in the rental business; that is we have 
much more to offer than merely food 
and accommodation. In any other field 
of operation the leaders of these 
groups would not hesitate to consult 
with the professionals of that field 
whether it be law, education, religion 
or what-have-you. The same should be 
true in the field of camping. What we 
offer over and above food and accom¬ 
modation is professional consultation. 

This approach to rentals does not 
necessarily mean that we would rent 
only to groups whose objectives, pur¬ 
poses or methods exactly match our 
own. What it does mean is that we 
ensure first that, as mentioned earlier, 
each group gets the most out of the 
facilities and setting of the camp, 
second that their program does not 
directly conflict with the philosophy 
of our camp and third that the impres¬ 
sion taken home by those participating 
in that program is the kind of impres¬ 
sion we would want i.e. favourable to 


our camp in general and the experiences 
offered there. If, for instance, our 
approach to working with children is 
one which entails the recognition of 
the rights of those children to partici¬ 
pate in the planning and implementa¬ 
tion of what will, in fact, be their 
program, we may run into a group 
wishing to use our facilities who 
perhaps, necessarily, takes a more 
authoritarian view. An example would 
be a group such as the one mentioned 
above where the police department 
wishes to use our facilities for the 
training of school patrols. As with any 
group, a certain block of time will be 
allocated to either free time or planned 
recreation and it is in this area that we 
could suggest the formation of a 
student group to plan its own activi¬ 
ties for these sessions with us offering 
advice on the possibilities which our 
site holds. We should be able to come 
up with recreational and free time 
activities which would use, to good 
advantage, the outdoor setting rather 
than allowing for these periods to be 
filled solely with movies and organized 
sports. We should be able to excite 
both participants and leaders to the 
possibilities of such things as nature 
hikes, stream-wading, cookouts, etc. 
This kind of participation on our part 
would also go far in solving the prob¬ 
lems associated with the group whose 
leadership wish to play “good guys” 
and allow completely unorganized and 
unsupervised free and recreational 
time. Our constructive participation 
could well reduce a great deal of bore¬ 
dom resulting from such an approach- 
boredom which leads to aggression 
against both property and people. 

This approach to rentals presup¬ 
poses a willingness on the part of 
management committees, boards, and 
camp directors to spend the time to 
sit down and draft specific policies as 
far as rental of the facilities are con¬ 
cerned and also a willingness to spend 
the time necessary with the groups 
who agree to rent our property under 
the conditions inherent in those 
policies. Perhaps the one thing to stress 
in convincing those who are fearful of 
adopting such policies (and also the 
main thing to remember as those 
policies are drawn up) is that every 
person that in any way makes use of 
Cont’d. on Page 6 


18 





WE HAVE A CANOE FOR EVERY PURPOSE 

Over 45 Models to choose from. 


Write to the Chestnut Canoe Co. for Free Literature and Prices 


CHESTNUT CANOE CO. LTD. 

FREDERICTON, N.B. 

OVER 70 YEARS OF SERVICE TO CANADIAN CAMPERS 


19 









* 



Ontario Dept, of Tourism & Information 



do 

S3H1 


ug * JSt;9i}0' ~y 

* *;s Ji»* s *JSF 

•H3SLBW 

* * VOilA 0 o; j 8; T3.¥ / J 8.f6 Mo; 1» 
*WndNVMNIR 




