Canadian 

campma 



CANOEING 

IN’and 'OUT’IMCES 

can add a lot of colour and fun to re¬ 
gattas or staff challenge races. The canoes line up and a starter starts 
the race. The racers paddle toward toward the finish line HOWEVER when the 
starter blows a whistle the contestants must jump out of the canoe and then 
re-enter it without dumping. The first canoe to reach the finish line wins. 
To add a little colour add a "turn" to the race. This contest is for staff 
and senior campers as it demands a lot of strength as well as skill. 



OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 
L’ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU CANADA — PUBLICATION OFFICIELLE 


SUITE 2. 1806 AVENUE ROAD • TORONTO, ONTARIO M5M 3Z1 
TELEPHONE (416) 781-4717 


Vol. 31 No. 3 
May 1979 





















Canadians Shine At Minnesota 


After many, many months of planning and close co¬ 
operation with the American Camping Association, the 
first International A.C.A./C.C.A. Camping Conference 
took place in Minnesota - February 19 - 24, 1979. More than 100 Canadians 
attended this four day conference, with almost every Provincial Association 
represented. Jack Pearse, along with the members of the C.C.A. Executive and 
Board were very instrumental in leading the Canadian delegation into this warm, 
friendly environment. 

A special note of thanks to all of the Canadians who led sessions and 
gave lectures. This group included the Boys' Camp Band ( Jim Rnowlton, Tom 
Knowlton, Peter Rasberry and Mark Baldwin ): Bruno Morawetz (Camp Ponacka); 
Jocelyn Palm (President of the O.C.A. and Director of Camp Glen Bernard); 

Dorothy Walter (Camping Consultant for the Ontario Ministry of Culture and 
Recreation); Jan James (Associate Professor, University of Alberta); Dave 
¥ilkinson (Humber College); Bob Slingerland (Kilcoo Camp); Wayne Perkins (Camp 
Wanakita); Derek Walsh (Camp Thunderbird, Victoria, B.C. - Derek was also res¬ 
ponsible for the Public Relations aspect of the Canadian involvemnet); Raymond 
Hade and Rosaire Corbin (Association des Camps du Quebec); Joe Kronick (Camp 
White Pine); Don and Linda Arnold (University of British Columbia and B.C.C.A.); 
June Labbett (Camp Oconto); Janet Adamson (Camp Gay Venture) and Carolea Butters 
(Camp Tanamakoon) Specific sessions were also given by Jane McCutcheon and 
George Simonett , Executive members of C.C.A. John Latimer had the honour to be 
the feature speaker at the closing banquet. 

The feelings which were generated by all of the Canadians present cer¬ 
tainly gave the Americans a different attitude as to the friendliness and warmth 
of their camping friends north of the border. If nothing else, all of us re¬ 
turned to Canada feeling that we were all united in the strong common bond of 
working for children through organized camping. The International Conference 
did strengthen both the A.C.A. and the C.C.A. and it is the hope of many of us 
that future meetings of this kind will take place. 



2 






BACKPACKING 


beginning a program at camp 


During the past few years more and more children and adults have become in¬ 
volved with learning more about their land and its people by adding Backpacking to 
their modes of recreational adventure. Packpacking has always been popular in the 
West and, with the development of such trails as the Bruce and the 2000 mile long 
Appalachian Trail, the sport has attracted many new participants in the East. 


Why? How could a Backpacking program contribute to your camp? Campers 
could discover new worlds just a few yards from the familiar routes travelled by 
water. It would introduce a new way of looking at the plants and animals which 
surround them. It could make possible new types of tripping combining Canoes and 
Backpacking. For example, one group could travel by canoe to a specific destina¬ 
tion to be met by another who travelled overland. The groups could then switch 
and return to Camp by another means of travel. This might help avoid some dupli¬ 
cation of travelling back and forth on the same routes. "Old hand" campers might 
enjoy the new possiblities for discovery and travel and especially the opportunity 
to develop new trails for the younger ones to follow. 


What do the Campers need? It is not necessary for campers to purchase any 
special equipment. They will need BOOTS or HIGH TOP RUNNING SHOES, and a RAIN 
PONCHO, the rest of the gear is just about the same as you would need for canoe 
trips. A change of socks each day is highly recommended for maximum foot com¬ 
fort. Two pair should do it is the "off" pair is washed the night before. 


PACKS 


What does the Camp need to buy? Each person should carry a pack. A good 
adult pack costs about $65.00, a junior (12 years and under) costs about $45.00. 
Packs should include these features: — 


nylon zippers \ 

side pockets jgijk L 

padded shoulder straps 
hip belts 
back bands 

fabric should be coated 

a good frame , 

(cont. on page 


3 



Thought for Food 


t~\ 


Here are some "kid tested" receipes which are popular and yet eco¬ 
nomical. Try them on your campers this summer, perhaps you can add 
a new meal to your menus. 


Dressed Meat Loaf (50 medium servings) 

Combine 10 lbs of hamburg 

6 medium chopped onions 
1 48oz can of tomato soup 
salt and pepper to taste 

Stuffing 

Saute •§• cup of margarine 
5 chopped onions 
3 tbsp poultry seasoning 
salt and pepper 

Add 3 loaves finely broken 

bread (including crusts) 

Stir well and add enough water to 
moisten 


Pork or Chicken Fried Rice (5P med. servings] 

Fry 14 cups of cooked rice until 

brown 

Brown 5 lbs chopped, cooked chicken 

or pork 

Add 2 cups chopped onion 

2 cups chopped green peppers 

3 cups mushroom pieces 

Add fried rice to meat mixture 

Add 2 cups water 

1 cup soya sauce 

4 cups chicken stock 

Simmer for -g- hour and then serve 


Tomato Sauce 


Mix 1 48 oz can tomato soup 
24oz water 
left over gravy or 
other broth 

Spread half of the meat mixture on 
two 12" X 20" pans. Cover with the stuf¬ 
fing (•§• for each pan) Use the remaining 
meat for the top layer. Brush top with 
tomato sauce. Bake 300 °F. 1 - ljr hours 
Cut into 2" squares. Pour sauce over 
squares on the platter. 


Southwestern Sloppy Joes (50 med. servings) 

Brown 5 lbs hamburg 

Add 3 chopped onions 

2 chopped green pepper 
4 cups barbeque sauce 
100 oz baked beans 

Simmer until very hot 

Serve over hamburg buns or bread 




These recipes come from Ann McLean of Ottawa who has found them very 
popular with both boys and girls in her Home Economics classes. 




r n 


e55E5?;t 

To the Unfit 

If you just sit 

You won’t quit 

““""ig 

r 

Fitness. 

It gives much more 
than it takes. 

r 

k pamapacnan0<i 

& 

l paRnapanwnm*^ 






> Tlv» dmCMn mOXtMftl lot pfftotuJ Crtno** 


Tho CaAftjion movomont (or poroorui tttnooa. 










Macaroni and Cheese 

Sauce : 2 lbs margarine 

2 lbs unsifted pastry flour 
12 imp. qts. hot milk 

(suggest powdered milk) 

6 tbsp. salt 

6 lbs grated medium cheese 

In a double boiler melt the mar¬ 
garine; add salt, flour and mix 
til you have a paste. Add hot 
milk gradually stirring until it 
is all in the mixture. Add grated 
cheese. Cook until all cheese is 
melted. 

Macaroni : 12 lbs of macaroni (use some 
of the more unusual shapes 
for variety) Cook until 
tender. Salt and pepper to 
taste. 

Put macaroni in greased pans - 
cover with sauce - sprinkle with 
paprika. Bake at 400° F until 
brown. Serves about 100. 


WORKSHOP IN OUTDOOR ADVENTURE EDUCATION 
July 23 - August 10, 1979 

A three-week workshop held at the Uni¬ 
versity of Ottawa Camp (70 miles north 
of Ottawa). Study and experimentation 
of the man/nature relationship within 
the context of adventurism. This ex¬ 
periential workshop will be conducted 
by Professor Claude Cousineau of the 
University of Ottawa, Professor Bob 
Pieh of Queen's University and Profes¬ 
sor Kirk Wipper of the University of 
Toronto. Six academic credits are 
granted to the successful participants. 

For further information write to: 

Dr. Claude Cousineau 

Workshop in Outdoor Adventure Education 
Service for Continuing Education 
University of Ottawa 
Ottawa, Ontario KIN 6N5 


Oatmeal Cookies 

Here's a recipe that requires NO 
COOKING. This recipe will make 
about 100 squares. 

3 cups sugar 
2 cups margarine 

4 eggs - beaten 
4 cups raisins or dates 
1 cup shredded coconut 

4 tsp. vanilla or maple flavouring 

5 cups rolled oats 

Melt the margarine and sugar. Add the 
eggs and dried fruit. Stir until the 
mix pulls cleanly away from the sides 
of the pan. Add the rest of the ingre¬ 
dients and mix completelyJ Allow to 
cool. In a 16 X 16 inch pan (or one 
whose area is about 260 sq. inches) 
spread the mixture evenly and cut into 
squares. 


CHILD LEADERSHIP TRAINING COURSE 
June 24 - August 27, 1979 

Participatory Training for 16 - 18 year 
old girls interested in child care and 
activity programming for 5-8 year old 
campers. 

NO FEE 

For more information contact: 

Miss Frances Owen 
Executive Director 
Camp Amy Molson Inc. 

1430 - A St. Marc St. 

Montreal, Quebec 
H3H 2G2 





3fn jflemonam 



"BLACKIE” 

by Adele and Harry Ebbs 

C.R. BLACKSTOCK, 'Blackie' B.Sc.(McGill) L.L.D.(York) 
'0, man, greatly beloved' 

For fifty years Blackie has been a "best friend". 

Our lives have been interwoven in two professional 
fields - camping and physical development. Little 
did we realize when we met on a cold May weekend in 
Algonquin Park, what an impact Blackie and Norah 
would have on our lives, as indeed, they have on 
thousands of others. 


Blackie was at Pickering College in 1928, during the same period as the late 
Taylor Statten, who realized the contribution he would make on staff at Camp 
Ahmek. However, this had to wait because Blackie was a Kitchikewana 'original'. 

He started the first year of that 'Y' camp on Beausoleil Island in 1921 as a 
very young counsellor, when Ernie Thurlow, boys work secretary for Simcoe 
County, was the director. Blackie rose to assistant director when Win Smith 
took over. Blackie refers to Smitty as 'a great and human being'. Blackie 
even then was attracted to water-front activities and earned his Award of Merit 
which he admitted was tough going! He was water-front director at Camp Ahmek 
in 1930 and 1931 and later in his career he was on the full-time staff of the 
Canadian Red Cross Society as Director of Water Safety. He has very firm ideas 
about he need for training in this area and believed that canoeists and trippers 
should learn to be self-sufficient. On the issue of life-jackets he believed 
that sufficiently trained persons would know under what conditions they should 
be worn. He gave input to the current research being done by the Society of 
Camp Directors, of which he was a Founding Fellow, when he alleged that canoe 
trippers should be trained to handle risk and to anticipate it. For his contri¬ 
bution to the Ontario Camping Association he earned an Honourary Life Membership. 


During his Pickering College years he was Head Master of the Junior School and 
Director of Athletics. Under his guidance and coaching the students reached for 
excellence and good-sportsmanship, which has been perpetuated in the annual 
Quaker Games. 


He did some summer courses at Wisconsin in out-door education, and finished his 


formal education at McGill, earning a Bachelor of Science. His Honour Doctorate 
was granted at York University in 1974* That was a memorable week. A few days 
earlier friends across Canada organized a surprise dinner in Ottawa in his honour. 
From this has grown "The Blackie Fund" which has been exposing students to ex¬ 
ceptional summer experiences, such as living in Olympic Village, and this year 
being steeped in Indian lore as two of them accompany Bryce Taylor on his cross- 


Canada tour. 


6 


In 1936 he directed Bolton Camp and for some years after that was the in¬ 
spired and creative director of Camp Pinecrest. His interest and education in 
the out-of-doors he applied at Pickering College by exposing the boys to the 
first winter school-camping for a number of seasons at Limberlost Lodge. 

For a man of his interests it was natural to seek fulfillment, along with com- 
patable partners, by establishing a camp of their own. Since the beginning, in 
1940, Camp Mazinaw has expressed Blackie's basic philosophy of excellence in 
endeavour and encouragement to all individuals whatever their ability. With the 
challenge of the great Bon Echo rock always in view, he has soared above to 
reach for the stars - and led all who would follow. 

His influence has been felt all across Canada, first through the Canadian Red 
Cross and latterly for many years as executive secretary of the Canadian Asso¬ 
ciation of Physical and Health Education. Even in retirement he was appointed 
consultant to the Sports Centre in Ottawa. 

Blackie was atune with nature from the stars above to the earth upon which he 
gently trod. The writings of Chief Dan George express his philosophy, "And 
my heart soars". Council Ring and Indian Lore is a part of Mazinaw because 
Blackie had a 'feeling' for our native people. Over the fireplace in the 
lodge at Mazinaw he had his friend, Fred Hagan, carve these words: 

"May Wakonda whose messenger is the Thunderbird, smile upon His 
children and send down the sacred fire from Heaven." 

Mazinaw will miss its 'Chief', but his moccasins will be worn by his worthy 
successor. All of us will miss our friend, but the spirit will never die. 

"Walk softly, follow my footsteps 
'til we meet a dawn - 
Stand quietly, let your lips give praise 

to the new sun." (Chief Dan George) 



The beauty of the trees 
The softness of the air 
the fragrance of the grass 
Speaks to me. 




The summit of the mountains 
The thunder of the sky 
The rhythm of the sea 
Speaks to me. 


The faintness of the stars 
The freshness of the morning 
The dew drop on the flowers 
Speaks to me. 

The strength of fire 

The taste of salmon 

The trail of the sun 

And the life that never goes away 

They speak to me 

And my heart soars. 

(Chief Dan George) 



BACKPACKING 


(cont. from page 3 ) 


CAMPTRAILS brand make a good quality pack. The 
SKILINE model frame and bag are examples of the 
quality you should look for. Of course better, 
more expensive packs are available bu to start 
with you might find a moderate price range prefe 
rable. 

Silicone spray or paint 

should be applied as ne- 4 MS M 


cessary. 

Washing - do not wash 


with detergent - use a 
mild soap such as IVORY SNOW 


COOKING EQUIPMENT 


aluminum pots 
plastic cups 

spoons and/or pocket knives 

waterbottles - buy the bottles especially made for 
Backpacking at an outdoor store. 

Cost: about $5.00. One per person 
in their pack 
use plastic jars** 

all other foods should be packed in double plastic bags 
#Ask your local druggist to save his plastic jars, apparently they get many which 
they throw out when empty. 


PACKING THE PACKS 



Ea cn per son should have his sleeping bag attached to the bottom of his pack. 
JHV * ...jf Be careful to load the packs so they are comfortable to 


few minutes after the trip has begun to 
see that everyone is as comfortable as possible 

Each person carries his own 
water container and rations his 
intake accordingly. 


Take frequent stops 

Have a small snack every couple 

of stops. 

WHERE TO GO 


Try abandoned railway lines and 
old loggin roads. 

Use topographical maps to make your 
own trails. 

(cont. on page 12 ) 



8 








The COUNSELLORS Page 

DISCIPLINE 



In the present context discipline is 

taken to mean "to educate, to train, to in- fir* olciA nnlf^r 

struct disciples". It does not refer to d* »l5lv pQITwl 

chastisement or punishment. In order to a- 
chieve harmony in camp it is wise to discuss, 

as each situation arises, the system of rules for conduct in that situation. Your 
expectations as a leader and the expectations of your campers have a better chance 
or realization if your relationship is built on mutual trust and respect. It is 
hoped that your camp director has imparted to you the rules prior to you arrival at 
camp, so that you can share the history of the camp and meet the established re¬ 
quirements . 


There are certain areas in which 
health plays a part. A few examples 
are dining room behavior, clean-up 
and water front activities. Meals 
should be enjoyed in a fairly control¬ 
led manner, the food should be shared 
equally and the noise factor not in¬ 
tolerable. When you encounter dif¬ 
ficulty and begin to feel inadequate, 
this is a good time to share your con¬ 
cern with your section leader or di¬ 
rector. Perhaps your director would 
accept your invitation to join your 
cabin group for a meal and relieve 
you for that meal, or for the three 
meals of that day. His presence sets 
(cant, on page 10 ) 


Society is plagued today with the problem of abuse, not only child abuse, but 
of martial partners and abuse of the elderly. It is most important to relaize that 
corporal punishment does not teach respect. It may achieve immediate results, but, 
no learning occurs for becoming an acceptable member of society. Unfortunately, 
the only thing learned by the child is to use this means of control when he becomes 
a parent and the vicious circle is perpetuated. We hear, too often, "It was good 
enough for me, and it is good for my children." 

There is no magic wand which succeeds in achieving harmony in personal re¬ 
lationships. There are no magic, infallible rules. We are dealing with individu¬ 
als, each child is different, as you are different and there must be sensitivity, 
understanding and flexibility in your relationships. Children come from different 
backgrounds and bring different attitudes toward the adults they encounter. In an 

agency camp where the children may 
come from culturally deprived homes, 
one is more likely to find the adult 
is regarded as an antagonist. This 
provides a challenge to you, as a lea¬ 
der, for the child to learn that an 
adult can be trusted and be a friend. 



DISCIPLINE 

(cont. from page 9 ) 

a different tone, the campers are inclined 
to exercise more self discipline and a new 
pattern is established. If a single camper 
is the offender, it often helps if he is in¬ 
vited to join the administrative staff table. 

This gives him a chance to become better ac- 
quanted with senior staff, and view first¬ 
hand the decorum to which he is expected to 
conform. This plan can be used as a reward 
as well as a teaching device so that a ca¬ 
bin group is not singled out for attention 
because of misbehavior. 

Cabin clean-up and tidiness throughout 
the day are meant to teach that living in 
tidy quarters is pleasant and healthy. 

How the duties are to be assigned could be 
discussed the first morning and a plan de¬ 
vised to chieve the desired results. This 
is the time for a counsellor to participate 
in the plan, it is not a time for lounging 
on a cot and giving verbal instructions. It 
helps to anticipate which camper needs extra 
help and to be able to provide it, to be a- 
ware when a child is neglecting his job and 
to be at his side to assist. This is done 
in a helpful manner, with no verbal out¬ 
bursts of condemnation and criticism. 

When a child misbehaves at swimming class, it does not seem warranted to 
deprive him of instruction as punishment. He is at camp to improve his skills. 
He should be excused from tile group instruction period, but someone should un¬ 
dertake to provide the same lesson to him separately. Let him know you care 
about him and how he progresses and are willing to give extra effort to assure 
him the full benefit of the camp program. This is demanding on the staff, but 
it does provide for that individual's special needs. It is more fun to be with 
cabin mates and this aspect could be discussed privately with the camper. 

"Docking" is a device used in camps to control behavior. To "dock" a 
child from having dessert does not teach him to be polite at the table. Simi¬ 
larly to "dock" a child from his favourite activity destroys his trust in you 
to help him enjoy all that camp has to offer. If you deal with your campers 
with respect, they will learn by your example. You set the tone. There is 
no place in camping for corporal punishment. A good counsellor is able to help 
the camper or the group to clear problems by discussion to work out a solution. 
Discipline used at camp should be guidance, not punishment. 

Sernard Mason, an authority on camping, has described camp as a social 
organization where law and order must be recognized and accepted. It aims to 
rely on the camper and his understanding of why regulations are needed. The 
regulations should be concise, clearly understood ways of individual and group 
behaviour and as few rules as possible. It helps to point out to campers how 
these rules have grown out of the experience of staff and campers for years 
back, such as (l) never swim alone, and only in areas designated and super¬ 
vised, (2) the need to be prompt at meals. , , . 

(.cont. on page 12) 



10 






Dispose of camp food 
service problems with 

royal Chinet 

disposable plates and bowls 

Strong, attractive Royal CHINET food service products help you ... 

• DISPOSE OF DISHWASHING COSTS 

Cut the expense of installing, maintaining and manning equipment 
that is used only a few months of the year. 

• DISPOSE OF BREAKAGE 

Save yourself the trouble and expense of buying matching replace¬ 
ments for pieces that crack, chip and shatter. 

• DISPOSE OF FOOD WASTE 

You get exact portion control with Royal CHINET’s wide range of 
sizes in regular and compartmented designs. 

• DISPOSE OF GERM COLLECTORS 

Royal CHINET products are sterilized when manufactured and 
packaged. And there’s never a germ-collecting chip, crack or 
poorly washed dish. 

• DISPOSE OF IRRITATING NOISE 


Disposable service is silent service. Meals are relaxed without the 
clatter and crash of china or metal. 

ENVIRONMENTAL ADVANTAGES, TOO 

All good campers want to protect the environment. Royal CHINET prod¬ 
ucts are manufactured from a renewable resource. What’s more, they’re 
biodegradable ... molded of natural wood fibres that burn readily with 
little smoke. Even if discarded out-of-doors, Royal CHINET quickly de¬ 
composes in the earth. 

Get the full particulars now. Mail this coupon today. 


CANADIAN KEYES FIBRE COMPANY LTD. 
HANTSPORT, NOVA SCOTIA 

Please provide me with details of the variety and costs of Royal 
CHINET food service products. 



COMPANY or CAMP 
ADDRESS 





11 

























5 t. 


DISCIPLINE BACKPACKING 

(cont. from page 10 ) (cont. from page 8) 


When regulations are ingrained in the 
life of the camp, it adds stability and 
makes possible greater spontaneity and 
freedom. There is something reassuring 
in a camp when things are done in the 
right way, at the right time, for good 
reasons. We have to accept that along 
with privileges are responsibilities and 
a good life is a wise balance between 
freedom and restrictions. The restric¬ 
tions in a camp must be maintained by 
a consistent policy in which trust and 
respect are basic ingredients. 


It would seem that a Backpacking pro¬ 
gram has much to offer the campers not 
only in learning about the bush, but 
about others as well as themselves. With 
a minimum of expense (compared to initia¬ 
ting many other camp activities) you can 
start such a program. As it develops so 
can your range and the sophistication of 
your trips and equipment. 

- much of the information in this arti- 
ching three years ago and presented 
a session at the O.C.A. Conference 
in March 1979. 


Dr. Elsie Palter is an Honourary 
Member of the O.C.A. and a former 
Director of Camp Kawagama. 


on oon 

•3|30cq«a *f ** **<*H 

(dwBO VOVQ'IIHDIH dKVO 


6 L 


■ 


6IIC-800 MSSI 


ize NSW OlUViNO OlNOdOl 
avou 3flN3AV 9001 'Z 3imS 

npouDj np sduw.i sop uoi/Dpossn 
UOlJUpOSSD tJUldlUDD UO\pvUDO 









