

[.'ASSOCIATION DES 
CAMPS DU CANADA - 
PUBLICATION OFFICIELLE 


OFFICIAL PUBLICATION 
OF THE CANADIAN 
CAMPING ASSOCIATION 



Annee Internationale 
<Je la jeunesse 

























9 


oce te 


*ss< 


( oci a 


1 

Y>est 

ti° n 




isV^es 


**** ov- 

a pd 

at . qre etX n n caPr^ q 

a mV V eaf * 


occas 


ion 


pfov 


ides 


^r- 


of 


\90S 


intc r 


^tV^ te t* e i„ P eop\ e ca nad a 


us 

you 1 




,Uf e 


t^at- 


in 


dec 


and 


Chens' 

• n * t ielV»^® a oo<- 

un*v 


OpP° 


oPP°-“cel^Vot VO^IW of - lt ,l* 
*%.•• '*<&». *?'id.—. ^S*»» lW ’ 


i» lo "touqi; ^"o£ ou* 


pn 1 


,def 3 


tan< 


t din9 


loteI, ‘“" .. -i— 


in 


ssrfr ie 


roff* tvUt ' 
,vel 3 
to 


int e 

°UP 3 ' 


rna 


tvonaV^^a.io^ d ln£ on lV 




orq»*i^V n0t 


ate 


' rYveSe 0 f ^' C 

io ,o, £ aC 


=° nCC „ o€Ci> 5 


1 B° ,l l develop 


,in<3 

i>" 


t^e 


cons 


U t ;e» i» - te800f c. 

'“’TraTiono •‘JT* 1 ?lcV «-3 ** , ct 

aS P V ;det «o« t& ve ate *« C a re ° f acC or- 

lde • tod 3 P eOP 1 ® d enetGV t>e * c , 

, „ vovin9 * t an 41 i e t>t atc eViet r c * 

e and 

. .... ot o£ °'* 

AtS^ .„AoP 3 ' en .. morai¬ 


ne 


cess ; 


afV 


cteat 


sense 


cnts 

d 

of 


and 

r«* e fe&• spltl 


i.deat 

ViOp e# 




tot 

venn e on 
‘ ti° n 


of 




° uT : a ^ e ca^P : 


e °^adian 
cs ******* 


ovi r 




of 


tall- 


oqo® 


v p °to 

cvetV 


itinG 

sue 


tYve 

•cess 


in 


ij 


H 


cyrr^f 

Y 9Q4 



In d- , *** 

*e ar ^. ar >ng . 

°ur 7 J/) e t/n- , 

a,.. 7 '”. 


c £2L°S'« 


«>». 




w ,c ,s 

' Aif, 


!, Que 


^^"<=0 l>'e. 


&Z?n£$ 


e,s ooe 


a/T, ar e , 


£/) 


^c/ a , 



^c/e ry ‘Ocy 5e r ’ Poor /, ^ U 0i -^/o 0aj 

^o„ yo * ,ur ' 4 $ /:r c r- 

-opL" /n'"v U.. * 


dc / a • ,d <“aar , 

«. /* ««0e«' S*J . . 

«evai a On,. 'ap*. re 5so„. _ ■ 5 On/ . 
* 


'* o/ ST^f/L ^ £«j 


3 M Wc,/^ ^ac/e !° 


n * ^ ^ 


4ctt -^ 


ii 

y °Ur)p 

~‘thf 


^ P/0, ^>4.7 

C °m p i U 


f e. 


sor e , 


°4f/j 

ve^^or 6 ! «o 0 ^'>^ 7 ’° 0 ' 

°Ur ca Plp<.^^ 0^/, th2 s °‘ n 8 W« Carri PinL, 
rr, astc-r * t ‘°n , s * Learn °°Wc«. ^ a £e 


5*j‘Xf2'« ^ 

W n! *f V ''°lpl° m U ' Z° s - Cu P en, /e 

c <"nbito?*‘< f 5 ' a a co' ,Ue k P ° r ''*«!? 

Jeunr>. na,s °n - ° Uv >'-* COf Ps.-. e Pro„_. e 

/«.• ej rf*a. 


^U/f a 

_ c *nriot* nd 40 
>o^'P c„. > 


er f 


£^«2sis,,?z 
^as^sSscsr . 

caojp/n 

^le/ 


' s es 


">e'0 


9oc 


o, 


an o’ 


9oe 


«ro* ' o/ 
s ano 


aojf 


**£■5 2JS o u 


Zy^n, 

"* C0rn 'r 'n n *y 


f/) e r *oo lcj Fltnc is a 
Car- fo 




Ca O). 


^es,, 

'PiO; 


■Poj 


de 

rn "P‘np ; - </<? s "Kr d ."*Jcs 




, Ct *t 

^es 






o/^o ^ 


ff a/)/i 


t Qp »e 


fp , r '**r d C * n *W 

L'Z. rvr, '!* 


£ ** 

Lilian' 7 *‘e ^ 
^J 6ii ^e , ysi 9^ ” in '*tre 
Z *•**£,« ao £ 


tfo 


%*■V 

I Oca. . a fion ^fe/a ^ e 0 n«». * 



/ST 5 at a 
^!<“ 1 


s ein 

v4 0r °nr 

rouj 


e u 


2 








Chairman's Perspective 

By: Hugh Phillips, Chairman, IYY Task Force 

1965 has been declared by rhe Unired Nations as International Youth 
Year. This declaration is timely. 

In unprecedented fashion, youth find themselves in a paradoxical 
situation. This is a time of great anticipation in our world as rhe 'third 
wave’ is earmarked by enormous change and challenge for youth. Yet 
equally cogent forces of disruption and despair abound in the minds of 
people, especially our youth. 

Perhaps the four themes of IYY best capture for youth the complexity 
of their world. Roots, fitness, environment and peace are all issues which 
command involvement of the young. Where are they from, what kind 
of world are they living in. to what extent are they fit to cope and will rhe 
future bring peace? 

The articles in this publication highlight rhe four themes of IYY. They 
speak about many of the concerns and changes confronted by rhe 
young Canadians. Even more, they urge youth to progress from an 
awareness of rhe topic to on understanding and finally to action. The 
concluding article identifies specific things to be done by youth within 
their camp setting. 

Youth do matter. They can effect change, nor simply for its own sake, 
but for the benefit of their world, their camp, their future. 

Here's to youth! 

Here's to all of us who want to live as youth - life to the full. 




Photo: Fitness Canada 



President's Perspective 

By: Jocelyn Palm 

This International Year of Youth gives the Canadian Camping Association 
an opportunity to make a statement. 

Camping is unquestionably in the youth sphere. Over 450,000 
campers and 70,000 staff will be at CCA member camps this summer. 
Most of this number fit into the category of 13-24 years, defined as 
Youth’ in this 1965 International Year of Youth, declared by rhe United 
Nations. Youth in camps find meaning and futures. They learn skills as 
campers and many obtain employment as leaders in their camps. 

It is all too easy for adults to slip into the mindset of nor being able to 
keep up with younger people! In fact, youth want and appreciate 
leadership from adults who have perspective; adults who stay forever 
young in spirit and enthusiasm. This Youth Year reminds those of us who 
are no longer in the 13-24 year group that we are wanted and needed. 
Comping offers this valuable interface of youth and adults together in a 
meaningful adventure. 

I have asked hundreds of adults who are former campers how they 
feel about their camp days. Here are the most frequent responses; "I 
remember those days best" and "Camp has made a significant impact 
on my life'', or "I made some special friends at camp, these people are 
still my friends'' and often, "I want my child to go to camp because I 
know he will learn skills which I cannot reach him, a camp experience is 
unique". 

A prominent business person and former camper said to me last 
week, "If I had children going to camp in 1965, I'd want them to learn 
self-reliance, self-meditation and how to do things.'' To what extent are 
these valuable aspects available for youth in your comp? It is obvious 
that the activity skills we reach are pursued through a lifetime. And I 
know that campers are learning who they are and where they fir as an 
individual and in a group. 

It is not enough to know in your heart that camp is invaluable for 
youth. Let's make this known in our 1965 camping promotion; fell if, sell 
it, show it, live if. Throughout this year, let's involve, encourage and 
recognize youth in camping. 

The CCA salutes and thanks Hugh Phillips of Edmonton, our IYY 
Chairman and his Committee Sylvia Haynes, Vancouver, Peter Goddard, 
Montreal, John Latimer, Toronto and Ian Fowler, Moncton. Each has done 
an excellent job over many months to bring rhe CCA's focus on youth to 
rhe forefront in this special year. 


3 



Camp Youth In Action 

By: Hugh Phillips, CCA Chairman, 

International Youth Year Task Force 

How can I, one of Canada's six million youth, make 1985 an important 
year for me and my camp? 

This special Conadion (lamping Association edition hos highlighted 
four themes of International Youth Year. All of these topics - roots, 
environment, fitness and peace - ore very important and timely. Will 
you take one of these topics and do something for your camp? 

We have shared some ideas for Environmental and Fitness Activities. 
This list of 'do-its' is not complete or comprehensive. But perhaps the 
ideas suggested will get you thinking. 

We hove purposely left the activity challenge for Peace and Historical 
Roots up to you. Use your interest and leadership skills to develop this 
idea bank and make a real difference in your camp program for 1985. 

Showyour camp that you care... you matter... you want to celebrate 
youth! 

Theme: Fitness 

More and more, fitness is becoming a fact for Canadians. At camp, we 
have an opportunity to support fit bodies through our program and 
facilities. Here are some ideas - new and old. 

• Think FAT ... Encourage your youthful campers to become fit by 
showing them o number of Fitness Activities for Teens. 

• Fitness Fair... Organize a special day at your camp which has a 
program full of fun fitness events. 

• Fitness Survey ... How fit were your campers on arrival? How fit are 
they on their departure? Can they return next year with fit bodies? 

• Fitness Trail ... Set up o loop, a challenge trail or adventure course 
which allows campers to take time each day to implement a fitness 
program. 

• Fitness Food ... The sage tells us we are what we eat. Consult your 
camp cook to prepare a high energy and/or low calorie and/or diet 
conscious meal. Beef-up' on your food facts to present to the 
campers. 

• Fitness Facts ... Put together an impressive stats and facts sheet on 
fitness for Canadians. Display your work in/at a prominent and 
suitable site. Perhaps make a 'trivial pursuit' game of this! 

• Fitness Follies ... Challenge a neighbouring camp to develop fit 
campers. Culminate this challenge in a fitness follies day. 

• Fitness Figure ... Invite a sports figure who depends upon a fit body 
and mind. Ask them to participate and/or talk about how they keep 
fit. 

• Fitness Feets... Let your feet do the jogging. A jog a day keeps the 
cogs okay! 

• F.U.N.... Remember that 'fitness uses 'nowledge'. That is, fitness is fun 
when you as a leader are informed about ihe hows and whys of 
keeping fit. 

• Fitness File ... Build up a bank of resources on fitness by contacting 
local, regional and/or federal organizations which offer print and 
non-print material. 


Theme: Environment 

The campsite isa natural' place to enjoy and investigate the wonders of 

our environment. Here ore some starters to try out. 

• Who lives here? ... Find out who lives at your camp by taking an 
inventory of plant life, animal signs or life. You may be amazed at 
how much you find! 

• ECO Trail ... Set aside an ecology trail to be used exclusively for 
exploring. You may wish to make thisself guiding with stations' along 
the woy and/or to be used with the camp naturalist. 

• Mystical Tour... Learn the stars and their constellations in your areo. 
Share these on a star walk or at an evening campfire. 

• CampGarden ...Set up a garden which can help supply fresh food for 
summer campers. Part of campers' duties can be the care and 
culturing of the 'camp cooperative'. 

• Compost Bin... Recycle biodegradable kitchen wastes. The resulting 
compost can be used on the camp garden. 

• N.R.C.... Set up a N.R.C. (nature resource centre) by contacting local 
and provincial organizations which produce materials about our 
environment. Many booklets, films and some kits can be obtained. 

• Adopt-a-Tree... Become friends with something natural in your camp 
area, such as a tree. Many individual and group activities can be 
created around your 'friends'. 

• E 5A. ... Establish an official environmental study area'; a place 
where campers can find and learn about many special features of 
our natural world. 

• Magic Spot... Encourage campers to seek out and find a 'magic' spot 
on your camp site. A place where in free time, a camper can be 
alone and find the serendipitous moments. (Details of this idea to be 
found in book Acclimatization by Steve Van Matre.) 

• Camper Connoisseur... Encourage campers to become connoisseurs 
of nature by specializing in ponds, stars, butterflies, fur-bearing 
animals, flowering plants, etc., etc.! Have your own resident naturalists, 
lake time to share of their expertise. 

• Plant Talk ... Many myths, stories, legends and folklore tales abound 
with the plants in your area. Plants also have medicinal uses, food 
value and non-virtues (poison ivy). Take time in the camp program 
for some fascinating plant talk. 

• Import Time... Invite a local naturalist who can help you discover or 
rediscover the treasure house of nature's gifts at your camp. Bring 
alive what your camp offers. 



This Special Edition of Canadian Camping has been produced by the CCA International 
Yourh Year Task Force. The iYY volunteers are: Marjorie Booth (Ontario), Ian Fowler (New 
Brunswick), Peter Goddard (Quebec), Sylvia Haynes (British Columbia), John Larimer 
(Ontario), and Hugh Phillips (Alberto). 

The IYY Special Edition Coordinator, Sylvia Haynes, would like to thank Jay Haddad for 
his contribution to the design of this issue. 


Cover Photos (Clockwise from Upper Left) 
Mazinaw (Ont.) 

John Bosco (Sask.) 

Mi-A-Kon-Da (Ont.) 

Fitness Canada 


Cover Photo Design: Pay Bowers 


CONTENTS 

Spring 1985 


Vol.37, No. 1 

3 Chairman's Perspective 

by Hugh Phillips 

4 Camp Youth In Action 

by Hugh Phillips 

5 Youth and Environment 

byMiitonMcClaren 

7 Getting Fit 

by Mall Peepre 

8 La Condition Physique 
par Moll Peepre 

11 Peace: Our Bold New Hope 

by Fred Weir 

12 Tracing Your Roots 

by Bob Stewart 



Canadian Camping is an official publication of the Canadian Camping Association/Association des 
Camps du Canada. Canadian Camping (ISSN 008-3119) is published quarterly. CCA/ACC member- 
Editor: Jay Haddad ship includes a subscription; non-member subscriptions in Canada $6.00 a year or $15.00- 3 years. 

Layout: Marjorie Booth Send address changes to CCA/ACC. 1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1. 

Photo Editor: Sylvia Haynes Material in Canadian Camping may not be reproduced in any form, without written permission of the 

editor. Copyright 1984 Canadian Camping Association/Association des Camps du Canada. 


4 




Youth and the Environment 
Developing the Ability 
to Think Ecologically 

By: MilronMcCloren, Faculty oTbducation 
Simon Fraser University Burnaby, B.C. 


Many young people ore urged ro become "Logical Thinkers". By this is 
generally meanr developing the habit of thinking in a step-by-step, 
straight line, one-rhing-at-a-time sort of fashion. It also usually involves 
learning how to break a problem down into pieces, to ANALYSE it, to find 
out what is missing, and then to solve the problem by finding the missing 
piece, the "solution''. 

This sort of thinking is very powerful. It has been rhe basis of many of 
the accomplishments of modern science, technology, business, and low. 
It is very good for dealing with problem situations which people hove 
seen before. In school people learn how to recognize what is required 
by a particular problem. Thus, once they learn how ro recognize that a 
problem requires subtraction, or multiplication, or the application of a 
particular rule of grammar, then they con proceed to deal with it. They 
know the rules of the gome, and apply them. As long os rules of baseball 
ore applied to baseball, and not to hockey, then (he correct result will 
usually be found, provided no mechanical errors ore mode. 

However, there ore other types of thinking, equally powerful ond just 
os important ro human history. They ore often not taught in school, but 
they probably should be. They involve seeing things whole, rather than 
os collections of ports, they involve thinking about systems, and about 
how things interact with each other, over time. They involve looking at 
change, at growth, at evolution, and development. They entail using 
rhe human imagination to invent new solutions to old problems, and to 
solve problems that haven't been seen before, or to go in entirely new 
directions. 

Unfortunately rhe first type of thinking is powerful, and fairly easy to 
reach. It is used a lot. There is an old folk rale which tells about a wise 
man who has lost his keys. A neighbour finds the wise man on his hands 
and knees looking very carefully at rhe ground under a lamp post. The 
neighbour asks what is going on, and is told, "I've lost the keys to my 
house and I'm looking for them.” To which, rhe neighbour, meaning to 
be helpful, asks, "Did you think that you'd lost them here?" "Oh no,'' 
replies the wise man, "I lost them over there, but the light is much better 
here.” The moral of this tale of course is that we tend to do what we can 
already do, or know how ro do, even when it may not be very helpful. 

Ecological thinking requires a wide range of abilities including both 
rhe "linear”, orderly step-by-step, analytical thinking and the all-ar- 
once”, "seeing things whole”, imagination-rich variety. Some modern 
writers have associated rhe linear, orderly sort of thinking with rhe LEFT 
side of the human brain, rhe left cerebral hemisphere, while the all-ar- 
once, holistic sort of thinking has been assigned ro the RIGHT side or right 
cerebral hemisphere. Thus, they've associated sequential processes such 
as solving arithmetic problems, or writing sentences, or reading printed 
text, with the LEFT DRAIN, and have put much of the visual and 
movement arts, as well as imagination and emotions in rhe RIGHT 
DRAIN. This idea is all right as far as it goes, and there is evidence from 
Neurosurgery and Neuropsychology that supports it, but normal human 
beings have a lot of connections between the two sides of cerebrum. 
We think with WHOLE DRAINS. However, in our culture, in the developed, 
western, technological-industrial stares, we tend ro attach a lot of impor¬ 
tance to the DA5IC5: Reading, Writing, and Arithmetic, and we treat art, 
and music, or dance as Frills, and even actively discourage creative, 
unorthodox, imaginative solutions, especially to "traditional” problems. 
Perhaps this is why so many talented inventors and creative people 
don't do well in school. 

Ecological problems and ecosystems are complex. They can be 
broken down into their parts. They can be analyzed. One environmental 
educator asks students to select an area of the forest floor. He then os\<s 


fhem to use a little spade to pick up layers of the soil, sorting rhe sections 
into separate bags. Each bag will be different - top soil, leaf litter and 
humus, sub-soil, bed rock, etc. Dut then, he asks the students ro pur it 
together again. The point is simply that rhe WHOLE in ecology is often 
more than rhe sum of its parts. Ecosystems are collections of parts which 
interact with each other. Understanding rhe individual, separate parts 
can be very useful. For example, it might be very useful ro a person who 
had never before seen a gasoline engine to take it apart, and to study 
all rhe pieces. Dut, if they had never seen the engine run, and didn't 
even know it was an engine, then knowing about the parts might well 
be insufficient ro getting it to operate. 



The Great Lakes system is a complex collection of ecosystems. It has 
now been made even more complex by rhe addition of hundreds of 
human-made compounds. It is possible to look at any one of these - 
mercury, or lead for example, but these elements aren't "alone'' in the 
lakes. They interact - with water, with rhe wastes of animals and plants, 
with living animals and plants, with sunlight, with all the other elements 
and compounds in the lakes. As we try to figure out how much mercury is 
"safe” to allow in the lakes, how can we deal with all of these 
interactions? 

Ecological problems are also complicated by the TIME factor. Ecologi¬ 
cal systems aren't frozen in time. They are constantly changing. We like 
to study and think about things as if time didn't matter - but in ecology, it 
does. Every day that we decide NOT ro a a on acid rain we are in fact 
DOING something by NOT ACTING, because rime is still operating - the 
clock is running. 

To think ecologically you need to use both your orderly, systematic 
brain and your imagining, "playful”, visionary brain. You need to learn to 
rake things apart (as in figuring out how many different energy requiring 


5 


Photo: Hugh Phillips 


steps ore needed roger your grapefruit, or egg, or cornflakes, from their 
sources to your breakfast table). You need to learn to see things whole - 
to think about how the world might be different if the various fast food 
outletsdidn'tsell Billions of Burgers every year, or ifwe didn't spend 6% of 
the planet’s wealth on arms. You need to learn to think across time. 
Suppose we decide to save money today by not installing a pollution 
control device on the local factory smokestack - what sort of long term 
costs and benefits might there be. Are we trading short term gain for 
long term pain? We need imagination, because imagination can 
produce visions of what the world might look like if various things were 
changed. For example, what would things be like if we were able to do 
without oil, or coal, or nuclear fuels, or if we didn'tall need to go to work 
(at the same time, by car, or train, or bus, five days (the some five) every 
week.) You need imagination in order to empathize with other people, 
to stand in their lives ond see things through their eyes. WE value 
wetlands as habitat for waterfowl, bur the poor farmer of Central 
America may see wetlands (for the same birds during the winter) as 
unproductive, or as breeding grounds for disease. 

lb think ecologically you need to bring together eight processes - 
eight ways of looking at the world. These are KNOWING, IMAGINING, 
VALUING, CONNECTING, JUDGING, OPENING, INQUIRING, and ACTING. In 
a sense, human intelligence is an ecosystem, a collection of processes in 
constant interaction across time. In schools we are taught some of these. 
We are taught about knowing, and we are taught how to find our 
(Inquiring). We are often nor taught as much about Opening - how to 
become more aware, to naturally expand our senses and change our 
perspective - or about ACTING, or IMAGINING. Ecological decisions 
almost always involve making choices from among alternatives, thus 
JUDGING comes into play, as does VALUING. This may seem very 
complex. In a way, it is. 

A forest, a pond, a flower bed - all ore complex ecosystems. We can 
try to simplify them by electing to pay attention to only one part or 


International Youth Year 



Annee Internationale 
de la jeunesse 
1985 



Photo: Hugh Phillips 


process at one time. But, in the long run, if we wont to really understand 
them, or learn to manage them well, then we must deal with them as 
wholes. Similarly, in thinking ecologically we may choose to select ONE 
of the eight elements or processes at a given time, and to emphasize it. 
When we are solving moth problems, day dreams may not be helpful. 
But when we ore trying to decide whether or not to cut down an old tree, 
imagination may be as important as knowledge, or values, or action... 

The problems of the world in which young people will live are 
complex, and often they ore also frightening. There are lots of simple 
solutions being proposed. "Build more bombs.” "Move our of the cities 
and go bock to nature.” "Close down oil factories.” "Kill all the wolves.” 
"Stop all hunting.” The simple solutions are usually good examples of 
poor ecological thinking. They neglect many of the eight key processes, 
or they deal in the wrong time frame. When you ore next faced with 
making a personal decision, of any kind, "environmental” or not, take a 
minute or so and write down those eight processes and ny to think your 
way through the situation in terms of Knowing (what do I know, what do I 
need to know...); Inquiring (how could I find out more); Imagining 
(what will happen if I do this/don't do this); Valuing (what do I think is 
important, for me, in this situation); Judging (- who else is involved - 
what are the consequences, or the normal "rules”); Choosing (have I 
really identified a lot of different possible options); Opening (have I 
really been aware of this situation - could I change my point of view); 
and Acting (can I make a plan to do something ond will l/have I done 
it); Connecting (what are the causes of the problem, what will be results 
of various actions, how does this situation relate to others?) 

Ecological thinking is like many other habits - it takes time to acquire, 
and it is reinforced by practice and success and failure. Bur, if young 
people want to live in a saner, safer, more humane and healthy world, 
for people, and for all life forms, then they'll need to learn to think in a 
way appropriate to a complex, changing, challenging, opportunity and 
beauty rich world. The best way to begin is to begin. 




Getting Fit: 

A Lifetime Exercise 

By: Mall Peepre, Senior Consultant, Fitness Canada 

"Let's Get Physical", the song goes, and now, more than ever before, 
Canadians are taking this advice to heart. To heart? Yes, and for the rest 
of the body, since getting "physical" and keeping fit means staying 
healthy and improving the quality of your life. 

Canada is in the midst of a fitness boom. In fact, the Canada Rtness 
Survey, a 1981 study sponsored by Fitness Canada, announced that 
more than 11 million Canadians - about 60 per cent of the adult 
population - can be classified as physically active. Among the 10 most 
popular activities are walking, hiking, cross-country skiing, jogging, 
cycling and tennis. "Aerobics" and "dancercise" have become part of 
our new fitness vocabulary, and sweatsuits are now acceptable street 
and party wear. But is this fitness boom a passing trend or is it here to stay? 

Young Canadians On the Move 

The findings of the Canada Fitness Survey regarding Canadian youth 
are especially impressive. The survey shows that nearly three-quarters of 
Canada's young people are active. This isan encouraging statisticwhen 
you consider that regular physical activity during youth sets the pattern 
for the future, with popular outdoor pursuits such as tennis and canoeing 
often continued throughout adulthood. 

For the most part, Canadian youth participate in a sport or fitness 
activity if it is fun, not because it is good for them. When something more 
enjoyable comes along, or when friends stop being active, physical 
activity can be easily replaced by lifestyle habits which are less healthy. 
This makes choosing a particular activity even more important for a 
young person, as if provides not only physical fitness, but also a long¬ 
term interest and lifetime benefit. 

Fitting In Rtness 

Habits, whether they are good or bad, are easily formed. The 
difference is that a good habit such as fitness offers certain rewards that 
other common youth practices, like smoking, drinking and skipping 
breakfast, don't. When you're physically fit, you feel good, look good, 
sleep better and chances are that you will be more fun to be with. You 
also have a healthier future to look forward to. The question for many 
young Canadians, however, is how do you fit fitness into an already 
hectic schedule? The Canada Fitness Survey found that more than 85 per 
cent of young Canadians said they would like to become more active, if 
only they had more time. 

The idea that keeping fittakesa lot of time isa myth. While training for 
highly competitive sports is time-consuming, home exercises, weight 
training, recreational gymnastics or cycling can improve or maintain 
fitness even if you spend as little as 30 minutes per day, three times a 
week. For students and young people entering the workforce, learning 
to manage your time is a concern and a challenge. Keeping fit issimply 
a matter of giving fitness the importance and priority it deserves, and 
then making time for it. 

Rtness Made Easy 

Regardless of all the fitness gadgets you see advertised in magazines, 
there are no magic pills, potions or machines that make you fit without 
effort. However, you can make staying in shape easier by each day 
looking for extra opportunities to do something physical. Don't leave all 
your activity to 30 minutes of calisthenics, even if it is the three-rimes-per- 
week activity you have chosen to do. 

Adding some healthy activities to your daily routine can be a 
challenge. Try walking instead of taking the bus. If it's too far, walk from 
bus stop to bus stop until you see a bus coming - then run for it. Stretch 
high on your toes to get things off the top shelf. Carry small weights, like 
rocks, when walking or hiking, and use them as mini-weight training 
equipment to do arm and shoulder exercises. Small things perhaps, but 
they can add up to a meaningful part of your fitness program. 


A Personal Rtness Program . 

You may think that a comprehensive fitness program requires special 
facilities, expensive running shoes and lots of time. In fact, a basic 
program can require as little as three or four sessions per week, and 
without any facilities at all. 

It is really quite easy to design a personal fitness prograrn, if you keep 
in mind the four main components: flexibility, cardio-respiratory fitness, 
muscular endurance and strength. Add to these some exercises or sports 
that develop coordination, balance and agility, and you have a well- 
rounded program. 

The exercises whick make up your fitness program need not be 
complicated or boring. For example, weight training is a popular 
method of improving muscular endurance and strength, and can be 
done at home or at school, with or without fancy equipment. You can 
even weight train at camp, using wood logs as weights. Young women 
can weight train too, and contrary to popular belief, will not automati¬ 
cally end up with bulging muscles. You will, though, strengthen your 
muscles, make them firmer, and improve your overall appearance. Just 
make sure to include exercises for all major muscle groups in the body. 

Being flexible means your joints can move more easily which can 
help prevent common injuries such as strained or sore muscles. A 
combination of slow stretching, bending and twisting exercises will 
contribute to overall flexibility. According to Canada Fitness Survey 
results, young men especially need to work on improving their flexibility. 

Aerobic conditioning for cardio-respiratory fitness improves the capa¬ 
city of the heart and lungs to take in oxygen and deliver it through the 
body. This requires continuous, total body activity for 15 to 30 minutes at 
a time. Activities such as skipping, dancing, climbing stairs and jogging 
ore great ways of achieving this right at home. If you prefer outdoor 
sports, swimming, cycling and soccer qualify as excellent aerobic 

activities. ^ , ... , 

A basic home fitness program can start with a half-hour workout 
accompanies by your favourite music. Build on that, and be sure to 
include a sports activity outside the home at lease once a week. For an 
outdoor enthusiast, a weekend hiker or ski jaunt offers more than a 
fitness opportunity - it also relaxes and refreshes you for the week 
ahead. 


The Challenge of Rtness 

The true fitness challenge is finding something that you enjoy and 
which, at the same time, is good for your physical and mental 
well-being. 

For many young people, this challenge comes from competition. 
Team sports like volleyball, hockey and ringetre are extremely popular 
and combine the opportunity for all-out competition with a develop¬ 
ment of skills and improved fitness. Getting involved in team sports is 
quite easy, since they are offered in recreation leagues and programs, 
schools, community centres and agencies like the YM/YWCA. Team 
sports also have the attraction of being social as well as fitness activities, 
and most can be continued throughout adulthood in recreational sports 
leagues. Of course, the challenge of fitness doesn't have to involve 
team sports. One-on-one competition, like racquetball or tennis, offers 
its own incentives and rewards, while individual pursuits such as jogging 
or running are a lot easier to schedule and can provide even greater 
personal satisfaction by allowing you to set and reach your own 

^Mosr larger centres in Canada have a variety of individual sports clubs 
with strong youth programs. For example, canoeing, badminton, cross¬ 
country skiing and orienteering clubs normally offer both recreational 
and competitive opportunities. Whatever you are personally motivated 
to do, check out the clubs in your area to find out what they can offeryou 
as either participant or leader. , 

Another total fitness challenge for many young people, and adults, 
lies in currently popular "adventure" sports like white water canoeing, 
rock climbing, mountaineering and backpacking. As long as you have 
the knowledge and skills to overcome the risks involved, these kind of 
activities can test both your physical and emotional fitness, and can 
provide the spark to get you "hooked" on the outdoors forever. 


7 



It's Your Move 

Getting into the fitness habit is a true challenge, maintaining it an 
admirable quality bur using it to influence those around you is perhaps 
the greatest achievement of all. It is also your responsibility as a young 
adult and you can find the opportunity to influence in a multitude of 
situations. 

As a future parent, or if you are one already, you can help your 
children adopt an active lifestyle at an early age. Exercise with them 
and create in them a love for the outdoors. Help them recognize that 
even household chores like raking leaves and shovelling snow can be 
fun fitness activities when done together as a family. 

The opportunity to influence also exists at camp, where as a leader, 
setting a personal example and giving advice to younger leaders and 
campers is a large responsibility. Live up to that responsibility by making 
fitness a year-round commitment and not just a summer diversion. 

Take a moment to reflect on your personal motivation for fitness. Do 
you want to get into a conditioning program to improve your skills or 
competitive edge in a particular sport? Perhaps you're more interested 
in a basic fitness maintenance program that can be continued fora Iona 
rime? Or maybe you just want to lose weight and look better right now? 
Whatever your reason for wanting to be physically fit, remember that a 
fit lifestyle can be challenging, satisfying and fun. Explore the oppor¬ 
tunities in your community, rake the rime to sit down and design a 
personal fitness program, and then do it! The first move is yours. 

For further information on fitness, contact: 

Fitness Canada, Fitness & Amateur Sport 
365 Laurier A/e. West 
Ottawa, Ontario K1A 0X6 

("Fitness Questions and Answers", "Health and Fitness', and other 
booklets) 

Canada Fitness Survey 
506-294 Albert Street 
Ottawa, Ontario KIP 6E6 
(Variousreports - $4.00 each) 

Canadian Camping Association 

(See 1983-84 Publications Catalogue for boolss on active games for 
youth.) 

Your provincial ministry responsible for fitness and sports. 



La condition physique: 

plus qu'hier et moins que demain 

par: Mall Peepre, Conseillere majeure. Condition physique Canada 


Les Canadiens ne trinquent plus a leur sanre, ils marchent, dansenr, 
courent pagaient ... Au Canada, le gout du jour est a la condition 
physique. En effet, I'Enquete condition physique Canada, commandi- 
tee par Condition physique Canada en 1981, a revele que plus de 11 
millions de Canadiens, soit environ 60 % de la population adulre, sonr 
"actifs". Ces Canadiens "actifs" s'adonnent le plus souvent a la marche, a 
la randonnee pedestre, au ski de fond, au jogging, au cyclisme er au 
tennis. La danse aerobie fait aurant d'adeptes que le charleston en 
faisait jadis er le coton ouare rrouve mainrenanr sa place dans les 
restaurants et les soirees mondaines. La condition physique sera-r-elle 
toujours aussi populaire ou la relegerons-nous aux oubliettes? 

Soyez de la partie 

L'Enquere condition physique Canada demontre que pres de 75 % 
des jeunes Canadiens sonr actifs. Des statistiques impressionnanres et 
d'autant plus rejouissantes que les acrivires physiques entreprises des un 
jeune age creent de bonnes habitudes qui ne se perdent pas. Le tennis 
et le canotage, par exemple, sonr des acrivires de plein-air auxquelles 
continuent souvent de s'adonner les adultes. 

Si les jeunes s'adonnent a une acrivire sportive ou de condirionne- 
ment physique, c'est habiruellement plus pour s'omuser que pour etre 
en sanre. II suffir qu'une autre acrivire plus plaisante s'offre a eux, ou 
encore que les camarades sen desinteressent, pour que la condition 
physique soit remplocee par de moins saines habitudes. Par conse¬ 


quent, I'acrivire que choisissent les jeunes fair bien plus qu'ameliorer leur 
condition physique, elle leur offre des avonrages durables. 

Mettez la condition physique 6 so place 

Prendre un bon pli, c'est aussi facile qu'en prendre un mauvais. Par 
conrre, le bon pli de la condition physique vous offre des avanrages que 
n'offrenr pas les "mauvais plis" souvent pris par les jeunes: le rabac, 
I’alcool, I'absence de petit dejeuner. Lorsque vous eres en forme, vous 
eres bien dans votre peau, vous faires bonne figure, vous dormez 
mieux, er qui sair, vous eres probablement une meilleure compagnie. 
Vous avez en outre un plus bel avenir devant vous. Mais comment 
ajourer la condition physique a un horaire deja charge? C'est la question 
que se posaienr 85 % des jeunes Canadiens qui ont repondu a 
I'Enquete condition physique Canada. Ces jeunes gens et jeunes filles 
affirmaienr qu'ils seraient plus actifs s'ils en avaient le temps. 

L'opinion populaire veut que la condition physique prenne un temps 
fou. Bien que I'entrainement pour les sports de competition demande 
beaucoup de temps, un programme d'exercice a domicile, la muscu¬ 
lation, la gymnastique recreative ou le cyclisme peuvenr ameliorer et 
mainrenir votre condition physique meme si vous n'y consacrez que 30 
minutes par jour, trois fois par semaine. Pour ceux d'entre vous qui eres 
erudianrs ou jeunes nravailleurs, la gestion du temps est un element 
important. Pour etre en forme, il vous suffir d'attacher a la condition 
physique I'importance quelle merire et de lui consacrer un peu de 
temps. _ 




8 


Photo: Fitness Canada 


Exception faire de la potion magique d'Asterix, il n'yo pasde remede 
ou de machine miracle qui peur vous aider a erre en forme sans effort. 
Vous pouvez toutefois vous foci I iter la tache en multipliant les occasions 
de vous degourdir un peu pendant la journee. Ne comptez pas 
uniquement sur les 30 minutes d exercice que vous foites trois fois cxDr 
semaine. 

II peut erre amusant de consilier votre routine journaliere et vos 
activites physiques. AAarchez au lieu de prendre I'autobus. Si le frajet est 
trop long, allezd'un arret d'autobusa I'autre jusqu a ce que vous voyiez 
I autobus et rartrapez-le a la course. Erirez-vous sur la poinre des pieds 
pour tirer les objets des rablertes. Tenez de petites pesees (pierres, etc.) 
dans vos mains lots d une promenade ou d une randonnee et servez- 
vous de ces poinds pour exercer la musculature de vos bras et de vos 
epaules. Ce sont de petites choses, soit, mais elles contribuent routes a 
votre programme de conditionnement physique. 

Faites-vous un programme sur mesure 

Vous croyez peur-erre qu'il faut des installations speciales, des 
chaussures couteuses et beaucoup de temps pour suivre un programme 
de conditionnement physique. En verite, un programme de base peut 
consisrer en trois ou quarre sessions hebdomadaires et ne necessire 
aucun equipement. 

Vous pouvez facilement elaborer votre propre programme de 
conditionnement physique si vous vous assurez d'y inclure les quarre 
elements suivants: lasouplesse, I'aspecrcardio-respiratoire, I'endurance 
musculaire et la force. En ajoutant des activites qui ameliorent la 
coordination, I equilibre et I'agilire, vousaurez un programme compler. 

Vous pouvez arreindre ces objecrifs tout en vous amusant. La 
musculation, par exemple, est rres populaire et permet d'ameliorer 
I'endurance et la force musculo ires. Vous pouvez vous y adonner a la 
maison ou a lecole, avec ou sansappareils. Vous pouvez meme vous 
enrrainer au chalet, en vous servant de buches de bois comme poids. 
Les jeunes femmes aussi peuvenr pratiquer ce sport sans necessaire- 
ment de velopper de gros muscles. Vous raffermirez vos muscles tour en 
contribuant a votre apparence. L'important, c'est de faire des exercices 
adapres a chaque grand groupe de muscles. 

Qui dit souplesse dir articulations sans raideur. Si vous eres souple vous 
pourrez evirer cerraines blessures courantes, notamment les muscles 
erires ou endoloris. Pour ameliorer votre flexibility, faites des exercices 
decrement, de rotation, de flexion erd'extension. Les jeunes hommes 
ont tout parriculieremenr interet a ameliorer leur flexibility, comme le 
revele I'Enquere condition physique Canada. 

Le conditionnement aerobe (cardio-respiratoire) ameliore la capa¬ 
city du coeur et des poumons de faire circuler I'oxygene dans rout le 
corps. II vous four done enrreprendre une activity physique complete et 
sourenue d'au moins 15 a 30 minutes par session. Si vous faites vos 
exercices cardio-respiratoires a la maison, saurez, dansez, monrez les 
escaliers ou courez. Si vous preferez I'exrerieur, la natation, le cyclisme et 
le soccer ne sont que quelques-unes des activites aerobes les plus 
efficaces. 

Le programme que vous avez con^u devrair d'abord comprendre 
une demi-heure d'exercice accompagne de votre musique favorite. 
Ajoutez toujours quelque chose a votre programme et assurez-vous de 
’ jouer dehors" au moins une fois par semaine. Pour les ferus de plein-air, 
la fin de semaine de ski ou de randonnee mariera la condition 
physique et la detente. 

Relevez le defi 

Le vrai defi que vous avez a relever est celui de trouver une activire 
qui vous plait et qui contribue a votre bien-erre physique et mental. 

Un grand nombre de jeunes stimules par la competition. Les sports 
d equipe, notamment le ballon-volant, le hockey et la ringettejouissent 
dune grande popularity et allient la competition, I'adresse et le 
conditionnement physique. 

Les sports d equipe sont a la portee de tous, puisqu'ils sont offerts par 
une variete de ligues recreatives, decoles et de centres communau- 
raires. Si ces sports sont attrayanrs, c'est qu'ils encouragent la camarade¬ 
rie et qu'ils sont souvenr offerts aux adultes. Le raquetball et le tennis, 
meme s'ils ne sont pas des sports dequipe, component aussi des 
avantages. Par ailleurs, les activites individuelles comme jogging 
peuvenr erre faites en tous temps etoffrent une plus grande satisfaction 


personnel le en vous permetrant d'arreindre les objecrifs que vous vous 
eres fixes. 

Presque tous les grands centres du pays offrenr a la jeunesse des 
programmes complets. Les clubs de canotage, de badminton, de ski de 
fond et de course d'orientation offrenr des activites recreatives et de 
competition. Peu importe vos gouts, renseignez-vous aupres des clubs 
de votre region au sujet des programmes d'animation et de participa¬ 
tion qu'ils offrenr. 

Les jeunes de tous ages sont aussi attires par les sports "d'aventure" 
comme le canotage en eau vive, I'escalade, I'alpinisme et la randon- 
nee en montagne. En autant que vous eres en mesure de parer aux 
dangers, ces activites peuvenr mertre a lepreuve votre forme physique 
et mentale et faire de vous un "mordu" de plein-air. 

A vous de jouer 

Si se mertre en forme est un veritable defi, et garder sa forme est 
admirable, en donner I'exemple est encore mieux. En rant que jeune 
adulte, vous vous devez de saisir les nombreuses occasions qui s'offrenr 
a vous de faire profiter les autres de votre experience. 

Vous serez peur-erre un jour parent, si vous ne leres pas dejd, et vous 
pourrez aider vos enfanrs a prendre de bon pi is des leur ieune age. 
Faites des exercices avec eux et faites nairre en eux le gout de la nature. 
Prouvez-leurque lestachesdomestiques, notamment racier des feui I les 
et pellerer, peuvenr etre amusantes et saines lorsque route la famille y 
met du sien. 

Vous pouvez aussi faire valoir la condition physique au camp, en 
donnant des conseils aux campeurs et aux autres moniteurs. Soyez a la 
hauteur de certe responsabilite et poursuivez vos efforts une fois 
I'automne arrive. 

Prenez le temps de reflechir sur I'importance qua pour vous la 
condition physique. Voulez-vous ameliorer votre esprit de competition 
et votre adresse a un sports precis? Preferez-vous un programme a Iona 
terme? Peur-erre voulez-vous tour simplement perdre un peu de poids? 
Peu importe ce qui vous pousse d agir, rappelez-vous qu'un mode de 
vie sain et synonyme de defis a relever, de satisfaction personnel le et 
d'agremenr. Partez a la decouverte des services offerts dans vonre 
voisinage, elaborez votre propre programme de conditionnement 
physique, et allez-y! C'est a vous de jouer. 

Pour plus de renseignemenrs au sujet de la condition physique, 
adressez-vous a: 

Condition physique Canada 
365 ouest, avenue Laurier 
Ottawa (Ontario) K1A 0X6 

L'Enquere condition physique Canada 
506-294, rue Albert 
Ottawa (Ontario) K1P 6E6 

L'Associarion des camps du Canada 

voir le catalogue de 1933-64 sur les publications de I'ACC 

Les minisreres provinciaux responsables de la condition physique 
et de sports amateurs. 



9 



Hugh Phillips 



Inlmuiiiiiidl Nouili Wur 
I9K5 


CCA Joins Together for 
InternationalYouth Year 
Notional Celebration 
Event, Wednesday, July 24 

By: Ion Fowler 

The Canadian Camping Association invites its member camps to 
celebrate International Youth Year by participating in a country-wide 
salute to ouryourtr. 

Although the CCA recognizes that each camp program is unique, it is 
hoped all will participate to some degree in this day for youth. 

How Will CCA Help? 

The Canadian Lamping Association will provide each member camp 
with a kit of program material suitable for the day's event. The kit will be 
directly mailed to each camp in early May. Kir contents include: 
Historical Roots Activities - Dr. Bruno Moraweiz, Camp Ponacka 
Environmental Activities - Mike Walters, Camp Chief Hector 
Fitness Activities - Fitness Canada 
Peace Activities - Canadian Peace Congress 
IYY Campfire Program - Jack Pearse. Jane McCutcheon, 

John Jorgenson, Camp Tawingo 

What Can You Do? 

As an individual member camp you can help by sharing the kit 
contents with your staff during pre-camp. Much of the program material 
is suited for camp programming on a regular basis. 

The most important contribution you can make is to dovetail the 
program activities or design a special IYY program for July 24. Although 
all activities may nor be suitable for your program, it is hoped that each 
camp will at least use the special IYY campfire program giving the CCA 
salute to yourh one common denominator. 

Finally, attempt to keep rhe United Nation themes of peace, roots and 
development in the forefront of your 1985 summer program. 

Need Future Information? 

Contact your Provincial Camping Association President or National 
Co-ordinator, Ian Fowler, 100 Westmorland Street, Moncton, N.B. El C 5B2 
(506) 853-3333 ext. 269. 


Photo: Fitness Canada 




10 




Peace: Our Bold New Hope 


By: Fred Weir, Member, Canadian Peace Congress 

Canadians under thirty may well be the most fortunate generation in 
history. We live in the midst of a scientific and technological revolution 
that is remaking the world. It promises to banish hunger, disease, 
ignorance, perhaps even death itself. Knowledge is exploding, throw¬ 
ing open a vast new universe of opportunity and experience, creating 
possibilities undreamt of by our ancestors. 

Yet this very revolution has saddled us with a terrible choice. For the first 
time we possess the ability to destroy ourselves completely, but we hove 
nor yet learned to control this knowledge. 

The nuclear arms race, product of our newfound scientific prowess 
combined with our ancient proclivity to moke war, now threatens our 
world with o duol catastrophe. 

On one hand, we must live with the daily fear that diplomatic 
miscalculation, political crisis, or even computer error may bring our 
civilization to on abrupt and fiery holt. On the other hand, we ore faced 
with slow, agonizing economic death os the wealth ond resources that 
ore so critical to our future bleed away, squandered on ever-growing 
stockpiles of unproductive armaments. 

The world, in 1985, will spend almost $1 trillion on weaponry. This 
figure boggles the imagination: it is greater than rh£ total income 
earned lost year by the 1 V 2 billion people living in the fifty poorest 
countries on Earth. 

It is, however, much more than money. Nearly half of the world's 
scientists and engineers ore today employed in military-related jobs. 
How con any dollar figure be placed upon this gigantic misappropria¬ 
tion of human ingenuity? Furthermore, the world's military machines ore 
guzzling our precious non-renewable resources at on astounding rate; 
they take the youngest, the brightestand the healthiest people; they put 
nothing bock into the economy. 

We hove numerous critical global problems to resolve if we ore to 
survive the twentieth century, and bequeath a better world to our 
children: pollution, hunger, disease, energy crisis, to name o few Yer our 
best brains ond resources ore siphoned-off into military activity and, os a 
consequence, our chances of successfully dealing with these problems 
diminish sharply. The arms race grinds us down; our future is being 
mortgaged in its name. 

We must also live with the constant spectre of nuclear war - which 
today looms closer than ever. Our political leaders, in their fruitless quest 
for "security", hove given us a world that bristles with over 50,000 
nuclear weapons; on arsenal of instant death, capable of destroying our 
planet forty times over. 

Scientists now soy that the explosion of os little os 1 % of these existing 
nuclear weapons could so seriously destabilize global climate and 
ecology os to render our Earth a dark frozen, lifeless place. They coll this 
the "Nuclear Winter”. 

Many people argue that nuclear weapons ore necessary to maintain 
"deterrence”, to preventthe "other side” from threatening, or dominat¬ 
ing us. There is some truth in this: nuclear disarmament will not work if it is 
only a one-sided process. Peace can never prevail while some are 
preparing for war. 

However, it is also true that solutions will never come from those who 
speak in the language of the Cold War. We have inherited from the past 
a system of warfare, deep ideological differences, national chauvinism 
and cultural hatreds. Ours is a divided world. 

Many of our political leaders continue to pursue these conflicts in the 
same old ways. The difference is that today they brandish nuclear 
weapons, nor spears or rifles. 

The day after the first atomic bomb was dropped on the Japanese city 
of Hiroshima, Albert Einstein stated the most fundamental truth of the 
nuclear age. He said, "Humanity now hold in its hand a weapon with 
which it can commit collective suicide... Everything has changed except 
our way of Thinking. A new type of thinking is essential if mankind is to 
survive and move to higher levels”. 

New ways of thinking are not easy to develop. One thing, however, is 
certain: they will nor come from those politicians, military leaders, arms 
manufacturers and conservative thinkers who have vested interests in 


perpetuating the Cold War, and its deadly twin brother, the arms race. 

New, creative and imaginative ideas are emerging from the growing 
worldwide peace movement. Young people, in particular, are signalling 
their impatience with a situation that seems to promise, ultimately, only 
death and destruction. They are putting forward bold new hopes. 

In Canada a wide variety of peace groups have sprung up in recent 
years. They are organized from the national scale down to the 
community level. They cut across the political spectrum, embracing 
churches, trade unions, student associations, native and women's 
groups, scientists, doctors, teachers... even politicians! 

Canadian peace groups engage in a wide variety of activities. They 
have organized petitions and demonstrations, seminars and sit-ins, 
bake sales and rock concerts. They have offered a wide variety of 
proposals designed to turn the tide in favour of peace and disarmament. 

There is only space here to mention a few of the most important 
proposals that have been made by major Canadian peace organiza¬ 
tions and coalitions in the past several months: 

• Make Canada a Nuclear Weapons Free Zone. Canada should 
renonce all forms of involvement in the nuclear arms race, including 
the production of components, transportation or storage of nuclear 
weapons on our territory, testing or training with nuclear weapons on 
our soil. Instead, Canada should use its influence to become a strong, 
independent voice for peace, stability and sanity in today's troubled 
world. 

• Support a Nuclear Freeze between the superpowers. Polls show that 
fully 85% of Canadians support this idea, and many governments - 
including the government of the USSR - have expressed a willingness 
to try it. A Freeze could be a critical first-step toward deeper 
reductions. 

• End Cruise Missile testing in Canada. 

• Transfer funds from military budgets to social needs. Canada could 
rake the lead in demonstrating to the world what might be 
accomplished if some of the billions now spent on arms were put to 
work to create jobs and meet real human needs. 

Peace is everybody’s business. It can only be achieved by everyone 
involving themselves, and contributing their energies and ideas. Our 
choice is, quite literally, between life and death. 

• Make Canada a Nuclear Weapons Free Zone. Canada should 
renounce all forms of involvement in the nuclear arms race, including 
the production of components, transportation or storage of nuclear 
weapons on our territory, testing or training with nuclear weapons on 
our soil. Instead, Canada should use its influence to become a strong, 
independent voice for peace, stability and sanity in today's troubled 
world. 



11 


Photo: Sparrow Lake United Church Camp 



Tracing Your Roots 

By: Bob Stewart, Vancouver, B.C. 

Comp iso rime for stories. It iso rime for listening to stories, and for telling 
stories. While some people ore good at telling whoppers, sometimes 
true stories ore even more surprising adventures than the kind people 
invent. Some of the most interesting true stories ore the stories that come 
our of the history of families. The story of your family con help you 
understand your parents and their parents, and sometimes they con 
even help you understand what mokes you tick. Sometimes the history 
of your family con tell you things that moke you proud. Other times, you 
may discover things that at first you don't really wont to hear. 

One of the ways that people begin to get to know the history of their 
family is by making o family tree, mink of a tree at comp. Many comps 
hove o favourite old tree; one comp I know near Vancouver has o pair 
of trees, Old Dill and Dig Den. They stand alongside one another, and 
especially on a windy night it's nor hard to imagine that they ore talking 
to one another. What might they be saying? Perhaps Dig Den and Old Dill 
ore brothers, or long-lost relations, and that down under the earth our of 
sight they hove roots that connected centuries before. And I con imagine 
the two of them on a windy night swaying in the breeze, exchanging 
stories from their post, telling stories about other trees that were port of 
their family tradition ond history. 

There ore times when I meet someone who is from the some area os 
my grandparents, and they hove the some lost name, and I begin to 
wonder... ore we related? Could we be like another? Do we hove o 
common greot-greot-greot grandparent way bad< out of sight? Making 
a family tree in order to begin to get to know your family history con be 
a real detective hunt, full of surprises ond tricks and missing clues. 

Imagine yourself os a tree. You ore standing in the meadow, a single 
trunk coming out of the ground. You look up ond see two branches, you 
mother, and your father. Your father's name is Green, ond your mother's 
name is Drown. You decide to look ot the Green branch more closely. 
There ore two branches coming our of that branch, -his father and 
mother. And then you try to see what's growing out of those two 
branches, ond they ore getting further our of sight, and harder to see, bur 
you've got o pretty good idea that the tree goes o long way up, and 
there ore a lot of other branches around that need to be identified. And 
then you look at the other branch, the Drown side of the family tree that 
your mother is a port of. There are a similar series of branches that grow 
out of one another, stretching out of sight. And you con see your great¬ 
grandfather Drown who turned up in your history book or school os a 
Father of Confederation, and another branch that you heard was 
involved somehow in the American Revolution. And another branch 
that was on inventor. Dut then you start to wonder: I wonder how I am 
related to all these interesting people? And how do I go about tracing 
my relations bock over the years, so I con begin to know my family 
history? 

There ore a couple of things that the above story suggests. First, in 
making a family tree, you will need to be very careful and organized if 
you ore to hove a tree that is accurate. Second, it is best to start with one 
side of the family at a time in your search for your family free. While if is 
on adventure and o detective hunt that con provide os many 
challenges os you could wish for, if you ore to discover the stories that 
moke up your family history, you will need to hove a combination of 
careful organization and imagination - os becomes any good defec¬ 
tive. 

All of your relatives hove stories to tell. All of them con tell stories that 
can give you clues to the tree you ore growing. As the tree grows you will 
discover old portraits ond diaries, you will read of the struggles of 
emmiqraring from far-away lands. Somewhere along the way you will 
likely discover the old "favourite" relation in your family tree. Perhaps he 
or she hod the some hobby os you. Perhaps they worked at o job you 
would like to hove. Perhaps they were great rompers, like yourself. 
Dutwhotconyou door comp that will help you get started on growing 
your family tree? You ore a long way from old diaries and photographs 
and archives. Your parents and grandparents and aunts ond uncles ore 
not of comp, so you can't folk to them. There ore no baptism, marriage 
or burial records, or old wills of comp - all of which ore useful in searching 



your family tree. And if you really ore keen, you con'f join the local 
geneaological society to get their advice ond help until you get home 
from comp. So what con you do or comp. You con tell the stories you 
know. And you con begin to plan what you will do when comp is over if 
you want to growo family tree. Telling family stories ond listening to the 
family stories of other campers con be a lot of fun. You con fell stories on 
yourself. Do you know how your parents met? Was it funny? Most of our 
families immigrated to Canada at one rime or another. Do you know 
when your family did? Do you hove any idea what if was like? Do you 
hove o favourite family relation? What mokes that relative your 
favourite? Do you know of any other relations you hove that worked at 
the some thing you would like to work or? There ore a variety of 
questions you might ask to begin to be able to tell family history stories 
at comp. Perhaps compers con try to fell stories about their grand¬ 
parents, or their great-grandparents. What was if like when they were 
around? What kind of work did they do? Do people still work of the 
some kind of jobs? How would they be both different and the some os 
you? 

Perhaps after hearing and telling some family stories at comp, you 
may wont to ny to trace your family tree when you get bock home. 
While you ore still at comp you con begin to grow the tree with the first 
few generations: yourself, your parents, grandparents, and perhaps your 
great-grandparents. You con fill out the branches by listing your aunts 
and uncles, great-aunts and great-uncles. What kind of information 
should you pur beside their names? You should try to put the year they 
were born, ond where they were born, ond the year they died and 
where they died. And you should identify when and where they 
married. The "tree' will look like this, with yourself in # 1. ( Page 10) 

Each of the great-grandparents listed on the right-hand side of the 
page (#'s 8-15;, will become the new beginning point on eight new 
sheers that will rake you bock for three more generations. This con be 
repeated os for bock os you con go. 

This "tree" iso very simple structure. If you get really hooked on doing 
your family tree, you moy likely wish to develop a form for each specific 
family which con give much more information and detail. In this brief 
introduction, I cannot provide oil the derailed information on what such 
o form might look like, and I would suggest that you read a book or two 
on doing family trees, or "geneaology" os if is colled There ore many 
books in any public library that con give you much more detail than I con 
in this brief article. 

Where do you go to start tracing your roots? First, you folk to your 
parents and grandparents (ond great-grandparents if they ore still 
alive). Gather family stories". Dut treat them with a bit of core. Time has 
o way of adding to old family stories, ond sometimes the stories will lead 
you off on a wild goose chose. Sometimes they con be very interesting 
without being very true. When you talk to your relatives, ask them for 
details of the life of the earlier relatives: Where wos Grompo Green 
born? Where did he marry? What religion was he? (this sometimes 
changes when people marry. Religion is important when you come to 


12 


Photo: Mi-A-Kon-Da 



tracing records of baptisms or marriage.) Who were Grampa Green's 
brothers and sisters? Do you know if Grampa Green lefta will? (Willsare 
very valuable in tracing your family tree.) Did Grampa Green have any 
diaries or papers I can look at? Did Grampa Green have a family Bible? 

If Grampa Green had o family Bible - and many families did have 
them not so long ago - it could be a real treasure foryour search. As well, 
there are o variety of other sources of information for growing your 
family tree: archives, genealogical reference libraries (usually part of 
the local genealogical society), churches and church archives, vital 
statistics departments of governments. It is quite possible that if your 
family has not been in Canada for very long, you will soon find yourself 
writing to the countries of your ancestors. This is a whole new dimension, 
and I would recommend that you look at a number of guides that are to 
be found for this in your local public library. If you write anywhere if is 
essential thatyou provide as much accurate detail os possible in terms of 
dotes and names and places as you are able, be if a marriage register, a 
baptismal record, or what have you. 

As our society becomes increasingly fast-paced, and as we find it 
harder and harder to keep a sense of who we are in the midst of our 
world, it is important that we seek outa sense of rootedness in the midst 
of change. For many people, searching out the "roots" - growing a 
family tree - contributes to that sense of being at "home" in the world. 
Carl Sandburg, an American poet, put if another way: ‘When a society or 
civilization perishes, one condition can always be found. They forgot 
where they came from." 

Further reading: There are hundreds of books which can help the 
geneaologisr get starred. There are also hundreds of guides and 
reference works on specific countries, even specific families, that one can 
use. I list only a few as possible resources: 

Angus Baxter, In Search of Your Roots: A Guide for Canadians Seeking 
Their Ancestors. Toronto: Macmillan of Canada. 1978. 

How To Trace Your Family Tree. American Geneaological Research 
Institute Staff. Garden City, New York: Doubleday. 1975. 

Harold Kelley, In Search of Your Family Tree. NewYork: St. Martin's Press. 

1977. 

Bill R. Linder, How to Trace Your Family History New York: Everest House. 

1978. 


Kindred Groups Celebrate 
International Youth Year 

Two national organizations report that they are in the final planning 
stage for their International Youth Year celebrations. 

Scouts Canada announce their upcoming 6th Canadian Jamboree July 
3rd to 12th at Guelph, Ontario. Organizers expect 15,000 Scouts and 
Venturers, aged 11-18 to participate with 2,000 volunteer leaders. 
Information on this Jamboree is available from district, regional and 
provincial offices of Scouts Canada. 

The National Canadian Girls In Training Association (CGIT) are planning 
a national camp in Manitoba at Camp Brereton August 16th to 27th. 
Fashun Watts, CGIT Executive Secretary, explained that this is the first 
National Camp since 1956. Forty-eight senior girls aged 15-17 will 
represent the eight regios at Brereton, located 90 miles from Winnipeg. 
Congratulations to the National CGIT Camp Council for their exciting 
celebration of their 70th Anniversary and International Youth Year. 


My Family Tree 


4_ 

Bom: 

Where: 

Married: 

Where: 

Died: 

Where: 


1 _ 

Bom: 

Where 


3 

Born: 
Where: 
_ Married: 

Born: 

Where: 

Where: 

Died: 

Died: 

Where: 

Where: 

7 

Bom: 

Where: 

Died: 

Where: 


2 . 


Born: 

5. 

Where: 

Born: 

Married: 

Where: 

Where: 

Died: 

Died: 

Where: 

Where: 

6. 


8 _ 

(see chart#_) 

9_ 

(see chart#_) 


10 _ 

(see chart#_) 


11 _ 

(see chart#-) 

12 _ 

(see chart#-) 


13 _ 

(see chart#_) 

14 _ 

(see chart#-) 


15_ 

(see chart#_) 


New Resource 

Science Is... Everyfhing. For everyone. In Everything 
Youth Science Foundation, 1985 

Science really involves the wonder and excitement of exploring the 
world around us... the activities downplay memorizing facts or focusing 
on dry experiments. Topics included in the book are: Matter and energy, 
weather, and Science Olympics. 

For more information contact Susan Bosak, 310-224 St. George Street, 
Toronto, Ontario M5R 2N9. (416) 927-9830. 

Intemotionol Youth Year 
Award in New Brunswick 

Recently, Eric Richards was the first recipient of the Minister's Award from 
the Hon. Leslie Hull, the Minister of Youth for the Province of New 
Brunswick. To celebrate International Youth Yean New Brunswick has 
introduced the Youth Investment Program. 

Any youth in the Province of New Brunswick between 15 and 24 is 
eligible. Candidates must complete 100 hours of volunteer services in 
each of four categories, including community work, culture, student 
council, assisting in sports, recreation and church. 

Eric, who is 20 years old and lives in Campbellron, N.B., for surpasses 
the 100 hour minimum. Specifically he isa member of a local theatrical 
group, was active in high school and ChristChurch. In working with youth 
category Eric assisted with Scouts, states John Jewett, who applied for the 
Award. “Eric is well deserving the Award, as he does volunteer work 
without the incentive of earthly rewards". 


13 





One World 

By: Mary 5. Edgar 
Vast are rhe deserts of the world, 
Wide-stretched rhe lonely sea, 

High the forbidding mountains 
Standing guard eternally; 

But matchless are the countries 

North, south, and east and west, 
Which our brothers call "The Homeland'' 
And which each considers best. 
Though we contemplate each other 
As an alien, and quire odd, 

We're all of us related 
In the family of God. 

We have never lived as neighbours; 

Hate has kept us wide apart, 

Yet we have a bond in common, 

An understanding heart. 

Our language may be different 
And rhe costumes that we wear, 

But we know the balm of laughter. 

And pain and sorror share. 

The Golden Age will surely come 
When fearful warfare ends. 

When we esteem our fellow men, 

And greet rham as our friends. 

If we would be the builders 
Of the bridges yet to be, 

'Cross the racial gulfs and canyons 
That frustrate sodality; 

We must strive to make rhe cables 
Strong and steadfast till they seem 
The causeway Peace has visioned, 
Making true her age-long dream. 




To Youth 

By: Mary S. Edgar 

With faith in the unknown future, 

And valour to meet each test, 

In a spirit of high adventure 

Gain rhe heights of your best. 

You who are young and a dreamer 
Will glimpse a city to built, 

Where the shining rowers of justice 
Will rise as you have willed. 

Work must be ever the key-stone 
To make a dream come true 
And a building greatly needed 
May arise because of you. 

You who are young and daring 

Must help the prayers come true, 
Of a world with deep forebodings 
And needing rhe faith of you; 
Needing the strong true vision 

Of a day when war shall cease, 
When rhe atom re-employed 

Shall build the bridge of peace. 


14 


Jay Haddad 



Dispose of camp food 
Sr service problems with 

royal Chinet 

disposable plates and bowls 

Strong, attractive Royal CHINET food service products help you ... 

• DISPOSE OF DISHWASHING COSTS 

Cut the expense of installing, maintaining and manning equipment, 
that is used only a few months of the year. 

• DISPOSE OF BREAKAGE 

Save yourself the trouble and expense of buying matching replace¬ 
ments for pieces that crack, chip and shatter. 

• DISPOSE OF FOOD WASTE 

You get exact portion control with Royal CHINET's wide range of 
sizes in regular and compartmented designs. 

• DISPOSE OF GERM COLLECTORS 

Royal CHINET products are sterilized when manufactured and 
packaged. And there's never a germ-collecting chip, crack or 
poorly washed dish. 

• DISPOSE OF IRRITATING NOISE 

Disposable service is silent service. Meals are relaxed without the 
clatter and crash of china or metal. 

ENVIRONMENTAL ADVANTAGES, TOO 

All good campers want to protect the environment. Royal CHINET prod¬ 
ucts are manufactured from a renewable resource. What's more, they're 
biodegradable . .. molded of natural wood fibres that burn readily with 
little smoke. Even if discarded out-of-doors, Royal CHINET quickly de¬ 
composes in the earth. 

Get the full particulars now. Mail this coupon today. 


CKF Inc 

HANTSPORT, NOVA SCOTIA, BOP IPO 

Please provide me with details of the variety and costs of Royal 
CHINET food service products. 

NAME_ 

COMPANY or CAMP___ 

ADDRESS ___ 

CITY _PROV. 






15 










Canadian camping association 
association dcs camps dn Canada 



< 3 » 


SUITE 2 1006 AVENUE ROAD 
TORONTO ONTARIO M5M 3Z1 

VOL 37, NO. 1 
SPRING 1985 
ISSN 008-3119 




■ wm 


Government of Canada Gouvernement duCanada \ 
Fitness aftd Amateur Spfort 'Condition physique et Sport amatetir 


May 25—June 2,1985 Fitness Canada 


We’re on a collision course with 
National Physical Activity Week (NPAW) 

But don’t panic. Join the fun instead, along with millions of other Canadians, by sampling the galaxy 
of fitness activities and “out-of-this-world” events, being offered between May 25 and June 2. 

Countdown to blastoff has already begun. 

Take a giant step and join in NPAW ’85 
















