m: 


f 

t 




OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 


CANADIAN CAMPING 


Mh>vembvr HHiii. Toronto, Canada 























SEASONS 

GREETINGS 

from 


GIBBONS FOODS LIMITED 

49 ADVANCE ROAD TELEPHONE 239-1421 


TORONTO 18, CANADA 




the confidence of our customers 
is our greatest heritage! 

Eaton's ol Canada has grown in size 
and importance on customer-confi¬ 
dence—on the faith the buying public 
places not only in the selections and 
values, but in the descriptions found in 
Eaton Advertisements. One of the first 
steps in customer-confidence is the 
realization that what an Eaton ad says 
about goods and prices can be trusted. 

11 we should have any doubts concern¬ 
ing claims of quality, the merchandise 
must be tested and the statements ap¬ 
proved by our Research Bureau before 
the descriptions may be used. More 
important, perhaps than anything else 
in establishing customer-confidence in 
Eaton's advertising is the policy laid 
down by the founder of the firm— 

"Goods Satisfactory or Money Refunded" 

EATON'S of CANADA 


Toronto 3 Canada , December 1965 


3 



NOW 


Pies FOR CAMPS 

Wise camps use Stafford's pie filling and bake a 
pie in HALF THE TIME. Stafford's pie filling is 
ready-to-use. Just pour it in the pie shell, and pop it 
in the oven. Out comes a tender, flaky pie no camper 
can resist, with his favorite filling—pineapple, mince¬ 
meat, raisin, raspberry, blueberry, cherry, apple, boysen* 
berry, apricot, peach or strawberry and rhubarb. 

Do as the wise cooks do. Keep your campers full and 
happy with Stafford's delicious fruit pies. 


FOODS 

BRANCHES- 37 Hanna Ave. - Toronto 

MONCTON, MONTREAL, WINNIPEG, CALGARY, EDMONTON, VANCOUVER 


REDBOOK MAGAZINE 

Effective with the April 1966 issue 
Redbook’s base circulation goes to 4,300,000 
Camp Directory in issues January thru’ June 

Redbook readers have confidence in the 
summer programs presented in this Directory. 

For information and rates address: 

Betsy Garrison, Director 

REDBOOK'S CAMP DEPARTMENT 
230 Park Avenue New York, New York 10017 

(2121-983-8790 




Stafford 

APPLE PI* 



Stafford 

.wtsehbirrt ? 8 



LIMITED 


4 


Canadian Camping 




THE NATURE 
HUT 

by Margaret Govan. 

('.a tup On aw an 


riiis year we had a nature museuni. 
just a small, rectangular cabin with 
many windows and a good supply of 
shelves. There was also a counsellor . . . 
which explains everything. The latter 
used the former in such a way that it 
became one of the most visited spots 
in camp—second only to the dining 
room. She equipped it with a couple 
of aquariums, some terrariums, and a 
microscope. She put all the reference 
books within easy reach. 

She put guppies and snails and some 
ornamental fish in the aquariums. She 
hunted vainly for a salamander for the 
terrarium and finally bought a spotted 
one Irom a pet shop “which could be 
handled but not squeezed!’' She set up 
an ant farm, and bred mosquitoes 
which were passed on to the sala¬ 
mander and whatever other reptiles 
had come on a visit. 

I'he counsellor took the juniors and 
interested intermediates on foraging 
trips to collect for the museum—it 
went by the unassuming name of 
“nature hut”—and she welcomed all 
contributions. These began to stream 
in from anybody who had been out 
on a walk, or had noticed a moth or a 
spider and was brav e enough to catch 
the same, and even from a local towns¬ 
man who sent in a small collection of 
stones. Toads, frogs and snakes were 
released two days later—the snakes 
often left before that. George, the big 


Toronto , Canada . December 1965 


bulllrog. having been caught three 
times, and released as many, moved 
his location. Campers became so used 
to handling toads that most counsellors 
had them in their beds! 

The campers and the counsellor tried 
to make the proper habitat for beetles, 
spiders, caterpillars and dragon flies 
and of course there were plants, fungi, 
leaves, stones, natural curios and birds’ 
nests. I'he counsellor used to leave 
reference books open beside a leaf or 
a mushroom, and always put up a pic¬ 
ture of the latest bird reported. She 
helped the children gild or paint leaves, 
make leaf prints and mention moss 
gardens. She even had a demonstration 
of the formation of crystals. 

By this time everybody was dropping 
in, including the hired men. And all 
visitors were shown over with pride. 

The spot on the island which had 
been a deer yard was searched for 
antlers. These were then on loan to 
the museum. So were the two skulls 
discovered on walks. I wonder what 
the mothers said when these* arrived 
home! 

The weather was tackled—not that 
much was done to improve it: we had 
an awful summer in most parts of 
Ontario. But a home-made barometer 
and a wet and dry thermometer made 
their appearance. A large weather vane 
of a rooster, carved by the younger 
hired man. was attached to a roof top. 

Scavenger hunts b e c a m e nature 
hunts. And it was all good fun, very 
stimulating, and everybody discovered 
that nature was interesting. 

The counsellor is being married in 
January! It would be so much easier 
to replace the nature hut! 


5 




TRAVEL 



Around The World 

Join the 5th Anniversary want of th* 
Camping Friendship Round tin* World 
Tours. Enjoy 60 unforgettable da vs 
with a small, congenial group in the 
Fall of 1966. 'The “different” itinerary 
includes areas off tin* beaten tourist 
track, in addition to well-known major 
centers. 

Visit exotic Hawaii, the Fiji Islands. 
New Zealand. Australia. Ceylon. Greece 
Italy, Switzerland, France, Netherlands, 
England. 

Enjoy specially arranged meetings with 
camp directors of other lands. Swap 
ideas for unusual camp programs. Make 
contacts with new staff personnel. 

Your tour conductors will be Mar\ 
and Howard Galloway, editors and 
publishers of CAMPING MAGAZINE. 
Size of group is limited, so please 
write now for colorful new brochure 
and full information. 

Camping Friendship 
Round the World 

Room 101, 5 Mountain Ave., 

N. Plainfield, N.J. 07060 


BETTER BOOKS FOR 

BETTER CAMPING 

Selected Resources 

-Camp Counseling . $6.25* 

.Campground Atlas of the 

United States and Canada .$3.00 

.Campground Guide . $2.95 

.Camping for Emotionally 

Disturbed Boys .....75c 

.Camping Skills for Trail Living ....$4.95 

.The C I T in Resident Camping _$1.25 

Complete Book of Camping .$4.95 

.Family Camping (Sunset) .$1.75 

.Family Camping 

(Better Homes and Gardens) _$2.95 

.New Understandings 

of Leadership .$3.50 

-Silva Compass.Type 6 Rambler—$3.50 

.Stalking the Wild Asparagus .$4.95 

.The Book of Outdoor 

Winter Activities . $4.50 

.The Young Sportsman’s 

Guide to Camping .$2.50 

-Training Camp Counselors 

in Human Relations _ $3.75 

-Three Minute Devotions 

for Boys and Girls .$3.50 

. Wilderness Cookery $3.95 

A.C.A. Publications 

Bibliography of Studies and Research in 
Camping and Outdoor Education—Single 
copies SI.50; 4-9 copies $1.25; 10 or more 
copies $1.00.* 

.Bibliography of School Camping and 

Outdoor Education . 50c 

- Campcraft Instructor’s Manual 11.50 

.Convention Highlights Members 52.00 

Non-Members $3.00 

.Research Monograph No. 1 

(Therapeutic Camping) . 35c 

. Spotlight on Drama in Camp—Single 

copies 75c; 2-24 copies 60c; 25-49 copies 
50c; 50 or more 40c.* 

•Denotes no membership discount. 
Postage charges will be additional. 


A.C.A. Members are entitled to 
a 10% discount (except where * 
appears on order form). Please 
fill in membership information 
in space provided. 

Region. Section. 


Name . 

Street . 

City, Zone, Prov. 

Amount Enclosed: $. 

Please Send Invoice . 

American Camping 
Association 

-Inc.- 

BRADFORD WOODS 

MARTINSVILLE — INDIANA 


6 


Canadian Camping 







































ZfadoNtft 

Extra QUALITY PAYS . . . 

and that is vouched for by the steadily growing number of camps whom 
we are privileged to supply year after year. 

Our sincere appreciation and we extend to all this time-honoured greet¬ 
ing of the Season 

MERRY CHRISTMAS 
AND A 

HAPPY NEW YEAR 

FOODCRAFT LABORATORIES LIMITED 

260 Richmond Street East Toronto 2, Ontario 

DIRECT SERVICE ACROSS CANADA 
Member — Canadian Camping Association 




2,ooo,oqo % 
f5\MlL|ES 
VVfTH CHILDREN 



Successful camp directors know that 
the path to desirable and responsive 
prospects for enrollment leads straight 
to Parents* Magazine—the only con¬ 
centrated audience of families with 
children! 

Young mothers and fathers look to 
Parents’ lor guidance in rearing healthy, 
happy children. They accept the author¬ 
ity of its editorial content; they believe 
in the integrity of its advertisers. 


Help in camp selection is among 
Parents’ most important services. 

For qualified inquiries, and enrollments, 
place your message and your confidence 
in Parents’ Magazine. For rates and 
details, write or phone Josephine E. 
Chrenko, Director School and Camp 
Department, parents’ magazine, 

52 Vanderbilt Avenue, 

New York.N. Y. 10017-212-685-4400 


^ Circulation ABC cijaRaHteep 


Toronto, Canada, December 1965 


7 























8 


Canadian Camping 














CANADIAN CAMPING 


Vol. 18 


DECEMBER, 1965 


No. 1 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 


The President Reports. 

Last Summer, Next Summer. 

Sermons Under the Sun. 

The Camp Staff Manual. 

The Day Camp Counsellor. 

Future Staff-in-Training Now. 

Forum (Camp Conference News) 
The Camp Library Shelf.. 


.Margaret Goven 
.Don Groff 


Allan Goldenberg 
.Ron Johnstone 


Cover Cut — Courtesy Camp Ouareau 


10 

11 

14 

16 

19 

26 

28 

29 


CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 

4036 West 30th Ave., 

Vancouver 8, B.G. 

Honorary President —- Miss Mary Edgar 

Past Presidents 

Taylor Statten, Toronto 
Dais L. Gass, Montreal 
Anne I. Vail, Montreal 
W. E. (Ted) Yard, Toronto 
Irwin Haladner, Toronto 
F. M. Van Wagner, Montreal 
Kenneth H. Murray, Montreal 
Don Smith, Edmonton 

President 

Mrs. May Brown, Vancouver 

Senior Vice-President 
Gordon McNab, Vancouver 

Vice-Presidents 

Miss Marilyn Fane, B.G. 

Mrs. H. Roessingh, Alta. 

Robert Douglas, Man. 

Mrs. J. H. Ebbs, Ont. 

Robert Lazanik, Que. 

Rev. David Hartry, N.S. 

Editorial Committee — 

Don Groff, Chairman, Katherine Anson, Joyce Bertram, Eanswythe Flynn, Margaret 
Govan, Bruno Morawetz, Eugene Kates, Kirk Wipper, Ted Yard. 

"CANADIAN CAMPING" IS PUBLISHED FOUR TIMES A YEAR BY THE CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 
CO. FOR THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION AT 170 BLOOR ST. WEST, TORONTO. ONTARIO. SUB¬ 
SCRIPTION PRICES: MEMBERSHIP IN THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION INCLUDES CANADIAN 

CAMPING: TO NON-MEMBERS, 75 CENTS PER COPY, S2.75 PER YEAR, SS.OO FOR THREE YEARS. 

AUTHORIZED AS SECOND CLASS MAIL, POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT, OTTAWA, ONT,. AND FOR PAY¬ 
MENT OP POSTAGE IN CASH. 


Executive Secretary 
Mrs. Charles (Peggy) Etchell 
3845 West 14th Ave., 
Vancouver 8, B.C. 

Secretary 

Rev. Ernie T. Loreen 
167 West 26th Avenue, 
Vancouver 10, B.C. 

Treasurer 
Richard Caswell 
New Westminster 

Publisher , Canadian Camping 
Fred Haiblen, 

170 Bloor St. West, Toronto 
924-7117 


Toronto, Canada , December 1955 


9 












THE PRESIDENT REPORTS 


• • • 


“COMMUNICATION” — a mes¬ 
sage, a news item, the interchange of 
knowledge, or the means of passing 
from place to place. 

We hear so often that lack of com¬ 
munication is the problem which faces 
national organizations in Canada. Is 
this really the case? A letter can travel 
from Montreal to Vancouver in one 
day, reports can be mimeographed at 
very little expense and sent out to 
interested groups. In the course of 
every day business people are con¬ 
stantly moving from one part of the 
country to another. 

No—communication is a relatively 
easy matter in this day of jets and 
zerox machines. However, our national 
structure must be strengthened if we 
are to accomplish the tremendous task 
ahead of us. Every provincial branch 
of the Canadian Camping Association 
has a responsibility to devote some 
volunteer time to national undertak¬ 
ings. We cannot leave the work to any 
one group. 

Has your provincial branch appoint¬ 
ed a corresponding member for the 
Editorial Committee, as requested at 
the last annual meeting? The Ontario 
Association has for years provided the 
working members for this committee. 

Has your provincial branch appoint¬ 
ed a chairman and committee for the 
Cross Canada Centenary Journey? 
John Latimer and his National Com¬ 
mittee are working hard to make this 
project a reality. 

Has your provincial branch sent the 
minutes of your meetings to the 
national office so that the executive 
can keep up to date on your activities? 

This is not just a reminder, this is 
a plea for national awareness. A plea 
to all provincial associations to assist 
in the work of the Canadian Camping 


Association. Your national executive 
has a number of projects under way 
but they need your opinions and 
support. 

To bring you up to date on Associa¬ 
tion news: 

—In July a brief was sent to the Fit¬ 
ness and Amateur Sport Directorate 
of the Department of National 
Health and Welfare on behalf of the 
Association. It stated that in 1964 
approximately 180,000 campers and 
15,000 staff attended our member 
camps. Under the criteria for ad¬ 
ministrative grants our Association 
was able to request one-half economy 
air fare for one delegate from each 
branch to attend the Annual Meet¬ 
ing of the Association, plus assist¬ 
ance towards office expenses up to 
$500. This was the first request sub¬ 
mitted by the Canadian Camping 
Association for support under this 
programme and we feel sure that it 
will be given every consideration. 

—The Association has received two 
complimentary copies of the Family 
Camping film and filmstrips—French 
and English. These were presented 
to us by the Information Services 
of the Department of National 
Health and Welfare in appreciation 
of the excellent work done by Don 
Groff who was a consultant. The 
French version will be handled by 
the office of the Association Des 
Camp Du Quebec in Montreal, the 
English version by the national office 
in Vancouver. If your branch would 
like to see films or filmstrips pro¬ 
duced on other topics, do let us 
know. We feel sure that more 
material of this nature would be 
useful to our members. 

page 30 please 


10 


Canadian Camping 



LAST SUMMER 


NEXT SUMMER 

by Margaret Govan, 

Camp Onawaw 


Gamp is over for the 1965 season. 
The last child has been collected by 
the parent who was “unavoidably de¬ 
layed.” A great peace has descended 
upon the camp site. (The counsellors 
have gone to town for a meal.) I 
should be very happy, immensely re¬ 
lieved, and I am—but I’m not. Pm 
haunted by the picture of the future. 
What have we done, my staff and I, 
to prepare our campers for the strange 
new world of tomorrow? 

I know that we have given them a 
respite from the present, the competi¬ 
tion, the tensions, the intricacies of life 
today. (Also from T.V.!) I know that 
the individual campers have received 
conscientious, kindly concern, support, 
stimulation, opportunities for develop¬ 
ment, for making friends, and for 
adventure, all in a sympathetic climate. 
So what? 

The question that is bothering me is: 
Is this enough? What about tolerance, 
for example? In -a world growing 
smaller day by day, and more crowded, 
tolerance and understanding and a 
readiness to share will be absolute 
necessities if we are to survive at all. 

“1 just can't stand her " says Mary. 

“They aren't my type at all," shouts 
Wendy. 

“Who do they think they are!" Cabin 
three is on the warpath. 

If these virtues are to be promoted, 
we’ll need a large number of work and 
play projects which bring campers into 
close relationship with each other. Nor 


should they always be in the same 
groups, although campers do require 
a closely knit group as home base. 

We’ll need to cultivate easy relation¬ 
ships among staff, between staff and 
campers, and among campers. A re¬ 
laxed, comfortable atmosphere will 
have to be created and maintained in 
which such relationships can thrive. 
And where does that begin? With me, 
I expect. For two months I must 
always get up on the right side of the 
bed, always show a “pleasant morning 
face,” never allow indigestion or a bad 
night or the weather to get me down. 
The self-discipline which is required 
here—I cringe when I think of it! 

But the staff must also work at this 
atmosphere, as they relate to their 
cabins, when they take out a trip, when 
they teach a skill. It follows that I 
must select a certain kind of person 
for a counsellor; his working conditions 
must give him room to do his job, and 
his equipment must be sufficient; he 
must have time off, encouragement 
and understanding and a pat on the 
back for work well done. 

Attitudes of tolerance, understand¬ 
ing and sharing have to be strengthened 
and interpreted through friendly dis¬ 
cussion and talking. Lots of talking. 
This requires time allowance—as much 
a part of the program as meals, and 
bed, and activities (although not 
scheduled as such!). 

We’ll need to arrange for interesting, 
out-going visitors from varied back- 


Toronto, Canada, December 1965 


11 


grounds and places. (We are in an 
enviable position with so many students 
from far away places, but they have 
to be screened. A visitor who cannot 
put himself across is far worse than no 
visitor at all.) Everybody from the 
youngest camper to the oldest staff 
member must have adequate opportu¬ 
nities to meet and talk informally with 
visitors. The visitor has to be prepared 
for this in advance, and to understand 
the outspokenness of children. 

“If you bow in Japan instead of 
kissing , and you bow to say ‘how-do- 
you-do? 9 and ‘good-bye’, how does the 
other person know what you mean?” 

Then there’s flexibility. We’ll need 
that all right when our world can 
change in a few hours. Young children 
are not flexible. They find it difficult 
to adjust to new plans; they have 
already projected themselves into the 
old ones—so most of them are ardent 
conservatives. And the older campers 
—with the exception of the odd ball— 
are all trying to be as alike as the 
proverbial peas. How do we teach 
them to accept change and enjoy it? 

Let’s experiment and use our imagi¬ 
nations. Let’s go and look for adven¬ 
ture and do the unpredictable. How 
can we break into routine, some of 
which is so necessary for “security”? 
What can we do that’s different? Let’s 
collect ideas all winter long, and be 
ready and prepared to produce them 
at the drop of a hat. Of course we 
won’t use a tenth of them, but even 
a tenth would be worth the effort. 
Campers seldom come up with new 
ideas; they want to repeat the success¬ 
ful projects of last year. But they’ll 
meet us more than halfway once we 
start this kind of a program. Enthusi¬ 
asm and good leadership are prime 
ingredients but that goes without say¬ 
ing. (This doesn’t mean citified projects 
and ideas; they are old hat too.) 

Those great big chunks of spare time 
which are to be part of everybody’s life 


—perhaps we are already preparing 
for them as we teach skills and hobbies 
and participation. Better underline 
that last word. 

I am tired of hearing about trips 
where the counsellors do all the cook¬ 
ing and send the campers out for wood, 
where the sterning is always done by 
C.I.T.s, counsellors or guides. Can’t a 
counsellor enjoy the trip vicariously, 
even to the extent of being a passenger! 
Otherwise how are the campers who 
do not become C.I.T.s or counsellors, 
to learn the skills? 

And plays and choirs which weed 
out the would-be actors or non-singers! 
Of course the plays and the choruses 
won’t be as good. But almost all camp¬ 
ers can hear the best on the radio, 
the record player or from the stage. 
What are we anyhow *— schools of 
drama or music? (This is not aimed 
at the camps which specialize; campers 
go to them knowing what to expect.) 

Campers must have a chance to try 
a variety of crafts, to work with several 
media; it needn’t cost much—paper, 
wood whittling, clay from the nearby 
clay pit, sand casts. And to do their 
own work! No camper could be satis¬ 
fied with something which the crafts 
counsellor finished. 

Sometimes we need cheering sections 
and audiences, but in so far as it is 
possible, campers should be given 
opportunities (with their age level in 
mind) and urged to participate whole¬ 
heartedly. 

Every camper who goes home equip¬ 
ped with a skill which he can continue 
to use has a tool for the age of auto¬ 
mation. Every camper who achieves a 
satisfying goal in a new skill is more 
ready to try something else. 

What are those automation machines 
going to do to government by the 
people, for the people? A very few 
people will hold enormous power in 


12 


Canadian Camping 



their hands. All the rest of us run the 
danger of becoming statistics, digits in 
one of those machines to be moved 
about like chess men. So ways and 
means must be found to enable people 
to have some part in their own des¬ 
tinies, and also to help them realize 
what can happen, and take action in 
order to meet the situation. Campers 
must learn to make decisions, carry 
them out, talk about them. How much 
practice do they get in this sort of 
thing? 

We have tried. But some campers 
resent making plans and rebel against 
it as a waste of time. 

“You’re our counsellor; you are sup¬ 
posed to have the ideas.” So said one 
senior. 

When you start a discussion, there 
is so much muddled thinking, going off 
at tangents, evading the point. So 
decision-making becomes a long, drawn 
out affair, sometimes ending in a fight. 
I suppose it all depends upon the pur¬ 
pose of “time.” What’s it for? How 
can it best be spent? Our own values 
must come into this. Do we want to 
enable persons to practise democracy? 
There are so few opportunities for 
them to try this out! It is surprising 
what can evolve from the muddled 
thinking, and how quickly campers get 
the idea, given some encouragement. 

As we need to struggle with our 
values and our philosophy, so do the 
campers—if they have any. It must be 
confusion beyond confusion these days 
to hear adults preach certain standards 
and to be aware of what is going on 
in today’s world. The community 
presses so hard upon the young. They 
hear us talk about honesty, loyalty, 
faithfulness, kindness, understanding, 
chastity, truthfulness, of non-violence, 
of working together, and of respect for 
personality. And then they see on every 
T.V. screen what mankind is doing. 
The virtues do not make for dramatic 


action. And the news releases—what 
we have done to this world is ghastly. 
But what of the impact on the in¬ 
experienced mind which hasn’t yet 
learned to ignore, to choose, or not to 
see? How can we help? 

Talking things over with a wise 
counsellor who has standards and lives 
by them is of immense value. I don’t 
mean teaching by lecturing, but talk¬ 
ing over what happens, helping camp¬ 
ers to weigh and judge. Communica¬ 
tion is not always easy. There are such 
big gaps between campers and adults 
these days, gaps in language and ideas. 
I saw a comic situation on T.V. yester¬ 
day where one French-speaking person 
had to talk with an English-speaking 
one. There was no interpreter, but a 
man was found who could speak 
French and German, another German 
and Spanish, and a third Spanish and 
English. Conversation had to travel up 
and down this line. Sometimes I feel 
that the director is as far away as that 
from the camper. As I speak down the 
line to the section head, the counsellor, 
the camper, I must be very sure that 
we are communicating. (Of course I 
can try to learn the language and speak 
it.) Such communication can only 
come with trust and friendship, sym¬ 
pathy and understanding. It takes in¬ 
finite patience, and more leisurely 
living than we are accustomed to, but 
I think it would be worth it. 

Everybody will need self-confidence 
and courage in this world that is about 
to be. Both of these are the results of 
inner security. What have I done about 
that this summer? Inner security comes 
gradually: Through achievement as a 
result of learning skills and carrying 
out projects. (That is comparatively 
easy to engineer.) Through making 
friends—some can and some can’t. Can 
we help the latter? Sometimes, not 
always. Through acceptance of oneself 

page 31 please 


Tor onto , Canada, December 1965 


13 


§ei*mon5 

®[nbcr tije g>un 

“THE DAY THE MASTER CAME TO CAMP” 

by Den Groff, Director of Camping , 
Kitchener-Waterloo Y.M.C.A. 


(This somewhat different form of Sunday church service was devised and used at 
Camp Wabanaki this past summer as a means of providing a more imaginative and 
meaningful form of worship experience for the youngsters and staff members at camp . 
The illustrations which comprise the narrative were drawn from the experience of the 
campers at the particular camp in question, and if this service format was to be used, 
illustrations should be designed to suit the background and shared experiences of the camp 
and campers in question.) 


Narrator: 


Scripture 

Reading: 

Narrator: 


Reading: 

Reading: 

Narrator: 


Scripture 

Reading: 

Narrator: 


“One day Jesus decided to visit a camp, which He heard was His 
camp—a camp that respected truth and sought it; a camp that 
respected love among those who lived there; a camp which believed 
in His teachings and sought to follow them.” 

“And wishing to share in the fellowship of His children, He came 
to visit His camp.” 

And the Word was made flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld His glory, 
the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth . 

“Upon arrival Jesus was greeted by a staff member busy with his 
records who hurriedly mumbled a greeting and vaguely pointed the 
way to a cluster of cabins up on the hill.” 

Fellowship Hymns 113, 1st verse—by a camper. 

Life of Christ in Poetry (Association Press Reflection Book). 

“If Jesus Came Back Today”—third camper. 

“Making His way to one of these cabins where voices could be heard, 
He listened quietly before entering, but to His surprise instead of 
hearing the carefree plans of young people at play, He heard plans 
for playing tricks on a camper in the cabin, who did not seem to 
fit in with the rest. He walked on by without entering. He knew 
this could not be a group within His camp.” 

And the King shall answer and say unto them, Verily I say unto you , 
Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these, my brethren, 
ye have done it unto me. 

“Walking away from the cabin, and rounding a corner, He heard 
a sobbing and found there a young boy. Upon questioning him He 
found that the boy was lonely, that he had been unable to join in 
activities because he was frightened of the water. Jesus took him by 
the hand and went with him to the waterfront and there tried to 
find someone who understood and would give time to him, but He 
was promptly told that all activities were booked—perhaps tomorrow. 
The boy sauntered sadly away, and Jesus knew that this was not 
His camp.” 


14 


Canadian Camping 



Scripture That ye may be the children of your Father which is in heaven: for he maketh 

Reading: his sun to rise on the evil and the good and sendeth rain on the just and 

unjust. 

Narrator: “With that the dinner bell rang, and He was certain that He would 
find His camp at the dining hall. Once the people were seated and 
Grace was sung, He proceeded to speak to someone to ask what He 
was to do? To ask what the procedures were? But He was rudely 
jostled by a table setter rushing to be served. Finding a place at one 
table He waited for someone to offer Him food, but instead was 
handed an empty bowl. The plates of those around Him were filled/’ 

Story: (On the plight of the hungry of the world)—by a camper or staff 

member. 

Offering: (To be taken up following the story and with little announcement.) 

Narrator: “Following dinner, He walked by the peaceful lake shore wondering 
at the beauty around Him, and still seeking the way to His camp. 
He saw a group of people crouched by a tree watching something, 
and He approached them to share in their discovery. But as He drew 
near He saw that their interest was in a snake, whose head had been 
cut off and which was squirming in its last death throes.” 

Choir: Singing “This is My Father’s World.” 

Narrator: “In bitter disappointment, He turned, feeling He had somehow missed 
the trail and was not to find His camp on this visit. 

“Suddenly, however, He felt a small hand steal into His, and looking 
down he met the gaze of complete trust in the face of a youngster. 
Then suddenly He saw another beckoning to Him, offering to be His 
guide. And with that, a group of young leaders sitting in a discussion 
called to Him, asking Him to join them and to offer His advice on 
the item, which they were discussing—and Jesus knew then He had 
found His camp. 

“If He came to this camp today would we know Him? Would He 
know us? Would He find His camp here?” 

Hymn: “O Master Let Me Walk With Thee”—sung by congregation. 

Benediction: (Read or recited by a camper or staff member.) 

“O Lord, as I wander from this place, 

Help me to know you face to face, 

Help me to see where you have trod, 

To know your footsteps on the sod. 

Let me as I upon you gaze, 

Know we are meeting face to face.” 

(As mentioned previously, the illustrations and the interspersed readings, hymns, etc., 
can be changed to suit the occasion and the camp setting in which the service is to be 
used. The effectiveness of the entire service will depend upon the effective presentation 
by the narrator and those participating in the various parts of the service . For greatest 
effect, the participants should not be announced , but should be coached in advance, and 
should rise to take their part as the narration calls for it.) 

- • 


Toronto , Canada, December 1965 


15 


THE GAMP STAFF MANUAL 

Session at Ontario Camping Association Conference 
9 a.m. Friday , February 26, 1965 . Participants: 

Don Groff, Bruno Morawetz , Fred Dier 


DEFINITION 

A Staff Manual is a booklet prepared by the camp for the purpose of 
informing its future staff about the camp and their role in it. 

REASONS FOR USING A STAFF MANUAL 

1. Orientation of staff (especially new members) to the physical features of 
the camp. 

2. Interpretation of traditions, philosophies, objectives and emphases ,(i.e., of 
the camp and of the camping movement). 

3. Sharing of information about procedures, regulations, job expectations, 
organizational structure, schedules, routines, etc. 

4. Preparation and training for job performance and basis for pre-camp training. 

5. Avoidance of frustration, confusion, misunderstanding and apprehension 
arising from lack of communication. 

MOST STAFF MANUALS CONTAIN: 

I GENERAL 

Table of contents 
Purpose of Manual 
Foreword, welcome 

II FACTS ABOUT THE CAMP 

1. Locale 

—directional map to get there 

—sketch of site showing trails, program areas, buildings, etc. 

—description of special features of the setting 
—special problems which site gives rise to (communications, etc.) 

2. Traditions s Philosophy y etc . 

—statements outlining and interpreting these 
—statement relating camp’s objectives to the camping movement 
and its philosophy 

—brief historical sketch of the camp 

—explanation of role that camping plays in the total program of the 
sponsoring organization, where such exists 
—explanation of special emphases in program, procedures, etc., as 
they arise from the background, tradition and philosophy of the 
camp. 


16 


Canadian Camping 



3. Procedures and Regulations 

—for administration, staff meetings, etc. 

—for emergencies, safety, waterfront, use of boats, etc. 

—for routines, typical day, typical week, Sunday programs 
—for programming, special events, etc. 

—for inter-camp relationships (e.g., O.C.A., canoe tripping, etc.) 
—for use of camp vehicles, equipment, etc. 

4 . Organizational Structure 

—channels of communication 
—supervisory relationships 
—co-operative relationships 
—future staff opportunities 

5. Personnel Policies 

—sickness allowance 
—employment and dismissal procedures 
—salary scales and payment procedure 
—travel to and from camp, charges for laundry, etc. 


Ill WHAT THE COUNSELLOR NEEDS TO KNOW 
The Art of Counselling 

1. About the Camper 

—why he comes to camp 
—what he is like at each age level 
—his needs by age groups 

—common behavioural problems and their “solutions” 

—health needs (danger of fatigue) 

2. Leadership 

—Do’s and Dont’s of counselling 
—what makes a good leader 
—what makes a good counsellor 
—camper guidance 

—need for self-discipline, personal habits, rest requirements 
—importance of example 

3. Discipline 

—meaning of discipline 
—what kinds of punishment, if any 
—factors in group discipline 
—building of esprit de corps 
—Do’s and Dont’s of discipline 

4. The Cabin Counsellor 

—special qualifications 

—cabin routines (rising, ablutions, meals, clean-up, rest-hour, 
parent letters, parcels, prayers) 

-—duties before campers’ arrival 
—rainy day activities, books, stories 


Toronto , Canada, December 1965 


17 



5. Counsellor Duties 

—night patrol 
—life guard 
—evening snacks 
—records and reports 
—relation to all-camp programs 

6. Privileges 

—evening snacks 
—laundry facilities 
—tuck shop 
—recreation areas 

—program (swimming, crafts, riding, skiing, boats, canoes) 

—time-off (days, nights, daily period) 

—staff car, if any 

7 . Public Relations 

—procedures for visitors (anytime, special days) 

—deportment on days off 

—consideration for cottagers, neighbours, nearby communities 

8. Awards available to campers or staff 

—requirements, standards of various camp activities and their 
awards 

9. Preparation before camp 

—what to read—bibliography 

—what to prepare—rainy days, games, campfire programs 
—what to bring—clothing, bedding, equipment, medical certificate 

10. The Intangible Rewards 

—the unique nature of camp life 
—satisfaction of a worthwhile job 
—building of lasting friendships 
—investment in personal health 
—gratitude of campers and families 


IV. SAMPLE FORMS USED AT CAMP 

—test sheets (swimming, canoeing, camp crafts, etc.) 
—tripping reports, what to take, hints for safety 


18 


Canadian Camping 



—parent reports, reports to section heads, etc. 
—counsellor evaluation 


V. JOB ANALYSES 

—program director 
—section head 

—specialist, assistant specialist 
—activity counsellor, assistant 
—cabin counsellor 
—C.I.T. program 

VI. THE MANUAL AS REFERENCE MATERIAL 

—list of games and activities 
—rules for games 
—first-aid knowledge 


VII. APPENDED LITERATURE 

—from O.C.A. (“Canoe Trips” by Irwin, “Canoeing” by Kirk 
Wipper, “The Happy Camper” by Miss Govan, etc.) 

—from Department of Health, Ottawa: pamphlets on behavioural 
problems, fatigue, etc. (Free) 

—from Plymouth Cordiage Co., 4195 Dundas St. W. 5 Toronto: 
“Useful Knots” 

—reprints of Camping Magazine (U.S., C.C.A.) 

—Department of Transport: “Safety Afloat” 

—Reader’s Digest: “Nobody Needs to Drown,” on drown-proofing 
—“Town Talk for Counsellors” 


VIII. HINTS FOR PREPARING MANUAL 
—bind in stiff, loose-leaf cover 

—do not overcrowd pages, leave ample space between sections 
—use simple language 
—be brief 

—use different coloured pages for different sections (compulsory 
material, reference material, basis for pre-camp training) 

—the tone of the Manual sets the tone of the future counsellor 


Toronto, Canada , December 1965 


19 



REPORT 


His theme: 


of an address presented at the Ontario 
Camping Association Conference of 
1965 by Allan Goldenberg, Recreation 
Supervisor, Township of North York 
Parks and Recreation Department . His 
theme: 


The Day Camp Counsellor 


What is -a Day Camp? By definition 
Day Camping is an organized group 
experienced in outdoor living on a 
day by day basis and under trained 
leadership. As the name implies, chil¬ 
dren travel to this camp each day for 
a period of one or more weeks. Day 
Camping should mean intimacy with 
a small group in the quiet beauty of 
the woods. Baseballs and paper crafts 
have no place there. 

We know why the camper is at Day 
Camp. Let us now try to find out 
what the Day Camp can do for him. 

1. Day Camp provides a first-hand, 
stimulating experience in the apprecia¬ 
tion of nature. 

2. It teaches him respect for the 
rights and opinions of others through 
group living. 

3. It adds to his social and emotional 
growth by being co-educational. As 
you know many resident camps operate 
separate periods for boys, a separate 
period for girls. While this is not to 
be condemned, there is definite merit 
in having young children camp to¬ 
gether on the same site. Many activi¬ 
ties are operated separately BUT the 
children do travel together, do hold 
council together and do enjoy many 
special events together. 

4. Day Camping develops camping 
skills and an aptitude for resident 
camping. 


5. It provides an opportunity for 
closer family relationships. When the 
camper heads home each evening he 
is filled with the excitement of the 
day’s new experience. Perhaps for the 
first time in his life, he can contribute 
to the family’s supper conversation and 
be the centre of attraction as Mom 
and Dad get the low-down on camp. 
For once, Junior will have something 
all his own to be proud of, and cer¬ 
tainly his parents will be interested in 
this new life which he has found. 
Finally, the Parents’ Nights event of 
each period will highlight the family 
aspect of Day Camp. 

6. Day Camp is structured so that 
the campers have a share in the plan¬ 
ning and are helped to develop self- 
discipline and creativity. 

7. Day Camp provides fun and 
adventure, two major values of Day 
Camp from the camper’s viewpoint. 

So that a camper may gain the most 
from the Day Camp, the camp must, 
in its philosophy, reflect all the fore- 
mentioned objectives, values and enti¬ 
ties which combine to form the com¬ 
plete definition of Day Camping as 
previously mentioned here. 

Now the problem is to determine 
what the sponsoring body’s actual 
philosophy is: Does it have a purpose 
and is the purpose in keeping with 
definition of day camping? Does the 
programming in your Day Camp con¬ 
tribute to the achievement of this pur- 


20 


Canadian Camping 




pose? Not enough attention is paid to 
the relation of programme to purpose. 
This often leads to unclear goals as 
to the “why” of the programme, con¬ 
fusion and frustration among the staff 
and often duplication of services among 
several organizations. 

If the philosophy and resultant pro¬ 
gramme are those which have been 
described as desirable, let us assume 
that the proper Day Camp site has 
been selected. The ideal site is far 
enough removed from populated areas 
so that the child is “captive” for the 
day. Privacy is essential if the objec¬ 
tives of Day Camping are to be met. 
Just being out of sight of such dis¬ 
tractions as residential areas or public 
picnic grounds will not provide the 
seclusion required. 

The Day Camp programme requires 
a natural setting with: a wooded area; 
a clearing or open area; a hill or 
uneven contours; and perhaps a 
stream. 

Several factors should be considered 
when selecting the site. These include: 
the distance from populated area; the 
accessibility; some means of constant 
communication; the safety of the child; 
the facilities (that is, shelter of some 
kind in case of rain, storage space, fire 
building area, council ring). 

After working out a Day Camp’s 
objectives in line with the sponsoring 
body’s objective and purposes, and in 
keeping with sound philosophies of 
Day Camp, the staff, in the final 
analysis, determines whether or not a 
child’s Day Camp experience is valu¬ 
able or valueless! Let us now look at 
the Day Camp staff as the major 
determiner of values. 

REMEMBER: 

1. Staff determines whether pro¬ 
gramme is a means or an end. 

(a) Staff determines whether, for 
instance, winning is more im¬ 
portant than the development 
of children. 


' (b) Staff' determines whether pro¬ 
gramme is seen as a way of 
meeting individual needs and 
interests. 

(c) Staff determines whether pro¬ 
gramme is “laid on” or de¬ 
veloped (or both) by the 
group. 

2. Staff determines the importance of 

the individual. 

(a) Is the “different” camper 
allowed to go or must he con¬ 
form, or is he ridiculed? 

(b) Are activities planned on the 
basis of who is participating 
(e.g., children who are over¬ 
weight, short, tall, young, 
etc.) ? 

(c) Are individual differences rec¬ 
ognized ? 

3. Staff determines the Educational 

Content and Methods. 

(a) Are teachable moments rec¬ 
ognized ? 

(b) Are opportunities given to 
campers to make choices and 
even make mistakes? 

(c) Is the group seen as a medium 
for education? 

Now then, how do we select the 
staff member who is our “determiner” 
of values? 

In a person with an approximate age 
of sixteen we look for the following 
minimum qualifications: 

1. Emotional maturity and construc¬ 
tive attitudes. 

2. Good health, vitality and a pleas¬ 
ant personality. 

3. Enjoyment of outdoor living. 

4. Liking for children and the ability 
to understand the needs of the 
campers and the camp ahead of 
personal desires. 

5. Ability to work as a member of 
campers, placing the needs of the 
a group. 


Toronto, Canada, December 1965 


21 


6. Interest in contributing to the 
achievement of the objectives of 
the camp. 

7. Good moral character and 
integrity. 

8. Particular skills and abilities for 
the specific responsibilities they 
are to carry. 

9. Enthusiastic initiative. 

10. Previous leadership experience in 
Day Gamping or a related activity. 

Let us now assume then, that based 
on these minimum qualifications, we 
have hired our Day Camp counsellors. 
Our next step will be to ensure that 
he fully realizes: 

1. his position and title 

2. to whom he is responsible 

3. general responsibilities 

4. specific responsibilities 

5. extent and limitations of authority 

6. relationship to other staff and to 
campers or, in other words: 

HIS ROLE AS A COUNSELLOR 

For example, the senior Day Gamp 
counsellor employed by the Township 
of North York is supplied with the 
following outline of his duties prior to 
the commencement of employment. 

DUTIES: 

1. Plans and prepares, in co-opera¬ 
tion with the Gamp Director, the 
daily programme for the group 
for which he is responsible. 

2. Supervises the campers on buses 
travelling to and from the camp, 
and on other trips. 

3. Provides leadership to camp groups 
in nature lore, archery, camp- 
craft, handicrafts, singing, hiking, 
tent improvement, games and spe¬ 
cial camp events. 

4. Supervises campers in transit to 
swimming pools, in dressing rooms 
and assists Swimming Instructors 
during classes, if requested. 


5. Attends and participates in 
Parents’ Nights. 

6. Attends camp staff meetings, par¬ 
ticipates in the planning of the 
total camp programme and 
assumes responsibility for opera¬ 
tion of the programme. 

7. Conducts himself in an exemplary 
manner at all times. 

8. Performs such other duties as may 
be required by the Camp Director. 

9. Attends and helps supervise 
camper sleep-outs. 

10. Assumes total responsibility for 
group while away from campsite 
on hikes, cook-outs, etc. 

Once the counsellor has been pro¬ 
vided with this detailed job description, 
the administrator should, at that time, 
make very clear the limits and relation¬ 
ships under which the counsellor will 
function for the duration of his employ¬ 
ment. These limits must, of necessity, 
be formed as a result of the previous 
experience and philosophy of the gov¬ 
erning body with relation to staff 
supervision. 

Too many directors are found with 
problems which ultimately result with 
a counsellor saying “I was never told 
not to!” 

Staff training plays a major part in 
the success of the Day Gamp. Its 
importance is such that it is never 
stopped but involves both pre-camp 
and “on-the-job” aspects. 

The pre-camp training should be 
planned in co-operation with the group 
leaders. Such a course includes the 
following topics: 

The benefits of Day Camping; camp 
government and discipline; child char¬ 
acteristics and behaviour; health and 
safety; programme planning; develop¬ 
ing a group spirit; inter-group activi¬ 
ties; parent-staff relationships; staff 
ethics; records and reports; the use of 
natural resources. 


22 


Canadian Camping 



Some of the training should be done 
on the camp site or under conditions 
similar to those that will be experi¬ 
enced during the camp period. In this 
way, a first-hand knowledge of the site 
can be learned by exploration. If 
specialized training is completed out 
of the community, all material used 
should be adapted to local conditions. 

I would like also to say a few words 
about manuals. 

Every year many of us hand our 
counsellors a Day Camp manual con¬ 
taining a section of suggested activities. 
These activities remain the same year 
after year. This lack of imagination on 
the part of administration is trans¬ 
ferred to the counsellors. A majority 
of the counsellors are content to take 
this manual and use this alone as their 
programme for the summer. They be¬ 
come confident leading these “old 
stand-by’s” because there is really no 
teaching involved. The children already 
know them and are likely tired of 
them. Help them to have enough con¬ 
fidence in their teaching ability so they 
enjoy presenting new games and ideas. 

Rather than giving them games to 
teach, teach them to create games. 
Teach them how to vary programme 
and make it come alive. Instill in them 
the desire to see children having fun 
while developing mentally and physi¬ 
cally. Do this by making them use their 
creativity in the training course. Prove 
to them that they can do it, and then 
make sure they carry it over in the 
Day Gamp. 

The true value of pre-camp training 
will become evident after staff mem¬ 
bers have had an opportunity to test 
their knowledge with practical applica¬ 
tion. It is important to continue this 
training during the camping season. 
This then brings us to “in camp” 
training: 


1. Planned, entire-staff “once a 
week” session, used for clearances, 
announcements, questions raised, shar¬ 
ing experiences, exchanging and ex¬ 
pressing points of view, planning for 
the future. 

2. Formal training sessions for spe¬ 
cial learning, specific skill learning. 

3. On-going staff performance evalu¬ 
ations: informal or formal; in all cases, 
they are private; where feasible, evalu¬ 
ations should be written, read and 
signed by staff member; and be accom¬ 
panied by an opportunity for discus¬ 
sion of the contents by the evaluator 
and the staff concerned. 

4. On-the-job supervision: Counsel¬ 
lors are apt to use the same attitude 
and procedures with the children that 
the director uses with them. If the 
children are to learn from counsellors 
the habits needed for democratic living, 
the staff and the director must learn 
and practise them also. The director 
must give careful study to the needs 
of each individual on the staff, being 
careful, however, not to “pigeon-hole” 
a counsellor and forget that his needs 
are changing. Sensitivity and insight 
are the major keys to effective counsel¬ 
lor guidance. 

We can easily see the importance of 
supervision in on-the-job training. Let 
us now look at some aspects of super¬ 
vision as related to the Day Camp 
director’s role. 

The director cannot think of every¬ 
thing himself. We must, therefore, be 
prepared to use the ideas of others. To 
use them, he must get them. In order 
to get them he must adhere to the 
following principles: 

1. He must learn to listen, to under¬ 
stand; 

2. He must recognize his own preju¬ 
dices; 


Toronto, Canada , December 1965 


23 


3. He must recognize that his staff 
sometimes hear only what they 
want to hear; 

4. He must question carefully; 

5. He must be sensitive to others’ 
feelings, attitudes and motives. 

The director must recognize poor 
work habits and know how to change 
them if effective work is to be done. 
He must: 

1. Watch the work pattern; 

2. Replace bad habits; 

3. Start new people correctly; 

4. Explain reasons for changes; 

5. Set a good example; 

6. Get participation in improve¬ 
ments. 

We live in a competitive society, and 
certainly many of the good things we 
enjoy are as a result of this—we are 
competitive by nature. The municipal 
department may be somewhat more 
restrictive in competitive reward than 
the private organization—but the com¬ 
petitive spur can be used. Let them 
know they are competing—offer in¬ 
centives, even if they are only symbolic. 
Ask for extra effort. All of those 
methods of supervision can fail where 
there is no effective discipline. Those 
who fail must be disciplined, which 
means they must be criticized; and 
there is a right way to criticize: 

1. In private; 

2. In a friendly way; 

3. Praise first to take away the sting; 

4. Approach the counsellor through 
his interest in improving himself; 

5. Make your criticism constructive; 

6. End with a pat on the back. 

Where discipline is required we must 
realize that discipline: 

Implies rules, not personal desires; 

It implies correction of error in a 
situation; 


Should not damage previous delega¬ 
tion of authority—we are concerned 
with what is wrong, not who is wrong; 

It must entail equity and dignity. 

We have mentioned delegation, but 
we must realize the act of delegation 
does not remove ultimate responsi¬ 
bility; from now on a level of super¬ 
vision becomes necessary. 

There is no need for a conflict be¬ 
tween supervisory and counselling staff 
because supervision must not be inter¬ 
ference, nor must it be spoon-feeding. 
The actual function of supervising 
needs additional knowledge and skills. 
Some of these are: 

Knowing the staff and understand¬ 
ing their attitude; 

Giving clear verbal instructions and 
making certain that complexities are 
in writing; 

Avoiding negative orders; 

Using the same staff techniques for 
volunteer counsellors. We feel that 
volunteer counsellors deserve to be 
criticized under the same fair criteria 
as paid counsellors. 

As you can now see, we have out¬ 
lined the following vital aspects of 
day camping: Philosophy, Site, Pro¬ 
gramme, and Staff, with a view to 
showing how these aspects can build a 
successful camp and therefore give the 
camper an opportunity to gain the 
most from his stay. 

Now to continue, let us look at the 
problems which are unique to the 
counsellors and supervisory staff of day 
camps. 

First, let us deal with management 
problems. These include: 

Procurement and hygienic storage 
and disbursement of water and milk: 

Daily sanitary disposal of garbage; 

Difficulty in procuring specialist staff 
because of the short work period 
offered; 


24 


Canadian Camping 



Little permanency of sites because 
ol rapid urban growth, resulting in one 
of three situations: 

1. Acceptance of a “second best'* site 
which could result in alteration of 
programme and philosophy: 

2. No camp at all: 

3. Little opportunity for staff to fully 
develop all the possibilities of the 
site over a period of years (e.g.. 
each year new council circles must 
be made). 

Now let us turn our attention to the 
unique problems of the day camp 
counsellor. 

Because a day camp operates a 
shorter daily programme, the counsel¬ 
lor encounters difficulty in fully know¬ 
ing and understanding his campers, 
which naturally hinders the establish¬ 
ment of a truly beneficial camper- 
counsellor relationship. 

Because of limited facilities which in 
most camps consist of small group 
tents, continuing bad weather can pre¬ 
sent programme difficulties for the 
staff. 

Because of the proximity of the child 
to his home and parents, all daily 
activities can become conversation 
pieces in the home, resulting in a 
greater responsibility for the counsellor 
to always provide a healthful and 
happy atmosphere from which to send 
the camper home each day. There are, 
however, certain developments over 
which the counsellor can exercise no 
control, as in the case of the camper 
blowing a problem or situation com¬ 
pletely out of proportion in relating it. 

The camper also has the choice of 
staying at home or coining to camp 
each day. Unlike the child at resident 
camp, he is not a “captive” camper. 


Toronto s Canada, December 1965 


There is one final problem which 
the child’s proximity to the parent 
presents. II the child is experiencing 
problems or has a bit of “wanderlust’' 
in him, he is more likely to strike out 
for his parents or for greener pastures 
from the day camp, than he is from 
the wilderness-centred resident camp. 

In day camps where specialists are 
employed lor skill teaching, individual 
counsellors see and know less of their 
group members. At resident camp, the 
counsellor who sees little of his charges 
during the day is, nevertheless, with 
them at mealtimes and during evening 
programme. 

Because of the generally accepted 
day-camp practice of training leaders 
as C.I.T.’s at no charge, a good deal 
more of the day camp C.I.T.’s time is 
spent in training and learning by 
example. The paid counsellor being 
observed and assisting in the training 
has a major share in this training and 
the extra burdens it brings with it. 

Where a municipality operates a 
day camp, the staff person is often 
seen by the public as a “part-time” 
civil servant: and as such, unfortu¬ 
nately, he is more vulnerable to public 
criticism than is his counterpart at 
resident camp. 

Finally? some day camp staff look 
for the romance and traditions in¬ 
herent in resident camping. When they 
fail to find it, they cannot accept day 
camping as such, resulting in dis¬ 
appointment and ineffective work. 

Now that we have run the entire 
gamut of day camping from the camp 
to the staff to the camper, undoubtedly 
we can see the uniqueness and the 
values of this new and ever-growing 
aspect of our Canadian heritage which 
we recognize as the Day Camp. 


25 




REPORT 


of an address presented at the Ontario 
Camping Association Conference, 1965, 
by Ron Johnstone, Director of Camp 
White Bear, Temagami, Ontario. 


His theme: 

Future Staff-in-Training Now 


“A training programme p roper Jy 
carried out IS expensive, but well 
worth both the time and the effort. 
You get a full year of evaluation before 
you trust these budding experts with 
your most valuable commodity . . . 
your campers.” 

This was Mr. Johnstone’s opening 
statement, to be followed by the ex¬ 
planation that for the purpose of his 
discussion he was considering anyone 
who is a C.I.T. in the process leading 
to full leadership responsibility in 
camp; i.e., those who pay part fee; 
those who pay nothing; those who 
receive some kind of honouraria. 

So . . . how are these budding experts 
selected ? 

“A counsellor, because of his or her 
influential position with youngsters, 
needs to be a well-rounded and well- 
adjusted person. He or she must have 
as a working background some knowl¬ 
edge of the history, philosophy and 
objectives of camping. He or she must 
know and appreciate, in detail, the 
camp philosophy and immediate and 
long-range objectives in camping. 

“Counsellors must come to under¬ 
stand people and appreciate their vary¬ 
ing personalities and characteristics. 
These trainees need personal skill in 
one or more camp activities, as well as 
the Know How in teaching others. 


Above all, since camping is basically 
an out-of-doors adventure, they must 
have the camping and woodcraft 
knowledge and skills necessary to live 
comfortably, happily and SAFELY in 
that same out-of-doors. 

“Now, do we take everyone who 
applies? Do we just let campers grow 
into the place of being too old for the 
camper role, so that, naturally, they 
will HAVE to be C.I.T.’s? 

“Or do we invite our older campers 
and others we feel will develop into 
the kind of person we want to work 
with our campers? 

“How many do we accept? Ideally, 
about twelve to sixteen. I use eight 
because of accommodation and the 
camp setting that I have. Of the eight, 
four will be invited back the second 
year to continue into the second year 
of the programme. I believe that it 
should be a formal, as compared to 
informal, education experience. Gen¬ 
erally our camping programmes arc 
informal education experiences. 

Osmosis is not good enough when 
you are training your staff. 

“We have the ideal laboratory for 
teaching. The programme is carried 
out in a camping environment. Pros¬ 
pective counsellors can see and observe 
the things they discuss put into prac¬ 
tice under actual camping conditions. 


26 


Canadian Campino 



“We should be using every teaching 
method available to us. Diverse teach¬ 
ing methods keep interest alert and 
make for thorough learning as they 
appeal to the visual-minded, the audi¬ 
tory-minded, and those who learn by 
doing or actually experiencing. 

“Who will your Instructor or Staff 
Counsellor be? Obviously, your most 
mature and best skilled teacher- 
counsellor. His or her job is one of 
counselling, instructing, and above all 
else, one of organization, utilizing the 
rest of the camp staff and the skill 
experts, arrranging for visits from the 
experts . . . the Fire Warden, the 
Visual Aid expert, the Swimming 
Examiner, the neighbouring Camp 
Director. 

“In close consultation with you, he 
will organize and develop the Curricu¬ 
lum. He will be the guiding light in 
the group experience of these young 
people. He will be the guiding light in 
the recreation and the project planning 
and individual counselling. 

“He will utilize all teaching tech¬ 
niques available: 

(1) Round table, panel and class 
discussions growing out of talks, out¬ 
side reading or assigned topics. 

(2) Special reports involving groups 
or individuals. 

(3) Teacher, group or individual 
demonstrations. 

(4) Special projects: collecting camp 
poetry, songs; making camp equip¬ 
ment; waterproofing bedrolls and 
matches; lighting fires by friction; 
living off the land for a meal; craft 
work, and so on. 

(5) Bulletin board displays, changed 
frequently and on schedule by group 
members. He will teach methods of 
making bulletin boards attractive and 
eye-catching, using coloured paper, 
coloured thumb tacks, headings, etc. 


(6) Use the visual aid slides, instruc¬ 
tion boards, and other such assists now 
available. 

(7) Exhibits of camp books, model 
campsites, arts and crafts, nature lore, 
camping and woodcraft skills, tools, 
and so on. These can be used for 
their own group teaching, but also for 
demonstration projects for the campers 
themselves. 

(8) Schedule periods for practising 
their camping skills: canoeing, life 
saving, swimming instruction, riflery. 
archery, horsemanship, with the 
emphasis on “how to teach.” 

(9) Make available a good biblio¬ 
graphy on all phases of camping. 

(10) Planning and participation in 
their own group cook-outs, over-night 
trips, long canoe trips, again from the 
viewpoint of “you will be leading a 
trip of this nature next year.” This 
also affords the democratic process in 
planning programme, food, equipment, 
duty charts, menus, again actual on- 
the-spot practice for next year. 

(11) Making a looseleaf note book 
and scrapbook on all phases of 
camping. 

“Along with all this is the most 
important aspect of the training ses¬ 
sions: the discussions and lectures on 
such topics as: 

How Groups Function 

Basics of Leadership 

Personality Development 

The Individual and How He 
Develops 

Working with Children 

Working with Teenagers 

“To do it properly, you must be 
willing to take the time, the staff and 
the effort necessary to a successful 
college course in a summer setting.” 


Toronto, Canada, December 1965 


27 



FORUM 

A CAMP ADMINISTRATOR S CONFERENCE 
and tlit' 

ANNUAL MEETING OF THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 

will hr held on 

FEBRUARY 10, 11 and 12, 1966 

The Place— Vancouver, B.C., in famous Stanley Park. 

Fhe B.C. Camping Association and the University of B.C. will co-sponsor 
a three-day conference in Vancouver on February 10. II. 12. 1966. The Com¬ 
munity Programmes Branch of the Department of Education is also lending 
support to the conference. 

Who is it for? CAMP ADMINISTRATORS. CAMP COMMITTEE 
PERSONNEL and SENIOR STAFF. 

What will be the Theme? THE CAMPER—His Needs for Tomorrow. 
Keynote speakers and consultants—A Sociologist, a Psychologist, an Educator, 
a Parent, and Campers themselves. 

These people will set the stage of the conference so that a thorough assess¬ 
ment of the camp programmes can be made in the light of these needs. 

CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION ANNUAL MEETING 
AND BANQUET 

The annual meeting of the C.C.A. will be held on Thursday, February 10, 
along with a National Luncheon hosted by the B.C. Camping Association. At 
this time a guest speaker will present ‘’Controversial Issues in Resident Camping.” 
which should further set the stage for group discussions later. 

Fringe benefits: Among the conference highlights will be— 

Displays from our Commercial members. 

The showing of new films. 

Book displays. 

Equipment displays. 

Social events. 

Slides on camping in B.C. and in other parts of Canada and U.S. 
Sight-seeing in and around Vancouver. 

PLAN NOW TO ATTEND AN OUTSTANDING CONFERENCE OF 
THE KEY CAMPING PEOPLE FROM ALL PARTS OF CANADA AND 
THE U.S. 

PROVINCIAL CONFERENCES: 

QUEBEC CAMPING ASSOCIATION: Conference to be held at the Queen 
Elizabeth Hotel. Montreal—February 24. 25 and 26th. 

ONTARIO CAMPING CONFERENCE: Conference to be held at the Inn on 
the Park in Toronto—March 17, 18 and 19th. 


28 


Canadian Camping 



THE CAMP LIBRARY SHELF 


CANADIAN LIFE SAVING 
MANUAL OF THE ROYAL LIFE 
SAVING SOCIETY, CANADA 

The camping community should wel¬ 
come this magnificent publication com¬ 
prised of five volumes, each concerned 
in a systematic manner with the com¬ 
plex problems of preventing accidents 
and dealing with emergencies. 

The titles indicate the scope of this 
up-to-date presentation: 

Vol. I The Canadian Life Saving 
Programme 

(Philosophy, History and 
Awards) 

Vol. II Swimming, Strokes and Skills 
(Pre-requisites to life 
saving) 

Vol. Ill Water Rescue 
Vol. IV Resuscitation 
Vol. V Proficiency Skills, Dives and 
Games 

The material in each of the above 
is advanced and revised, incorporating 
new technical information and main¬ 
taining a consistent philosophy through¬ 
out. Perhaps the most significant for¬ 
ward step lies in the primary position 
given to basic non-contact rescue as 
opposed to contact rescue. The basic 
rescue with all its variations is clearly 
defined, leaving no doubt as to the 
Society’s position on this subject. 

By including explicit relevant theory, 
the editor-author, Dick Carlton, is 
successful in describing “why” as well 
as “how” in presenting techniques 


which embrace all the awards of the 
Society. With such a resource avail¬ 
able, the reasoning process should be¬ 
come part of every period of instruc¬ 
tion and, to some degree, of each 
examination held. 

No camp waterfront or any other 
waterfront situation should operate 
without this new manual, which is the 
most complete technical reference in 
life saving that is now available. It 
represents the experience and thought 
of many qualified people dedicated to 
the cause that is contained in the 
motto of the Society: 

WHOMSOEVER YOU SEE IN 
DISTRESS, RECOGNIZE IN 
HIM A FELLOW MAN. 

Copies may be obtained from the 
Royal Life Saving Society, Canada, 
550 Church Street, Toronto 5, at $3.50 
per set, complete with binder. 

Kirk A. W. Wipper, 

National Technical Chairman. 


A CHRISTMAS WREATH 
OF VERSE 

by Mary S. Edgar 

-• 

Friends of Miss Mary S. Edgar will 
be pleased to know that she has written 
a book of verse under the title, A 
Christmas Wreath of Verse. Miss 
Edgar has captured some of the mys¬ 
tery and joy of the Christmas season 
in this attractive little book. Through 

page 31 please 


Toronto , Canada , December 1965 


29 





OUR FRIENDS . . . 
The Advertisers 


American Camping Association . 6 

Continental Casualty Co.— 

Outside Back Cover 

T. Eaton Co. Ltd. . 3 

Foodcraft Laboratories Ltd. 7 

Galloway Corporation ... 6 

Gibbons Foods Ltd.Inside Front Cover 

K & N Travel Service . 8 

Parents’ Magazine . 7 

Redbook Magazine . 4 

Stafford Foods, Ltd. 4 

Starkman Chemists Ltd. 8 

Tandy Leather Co. .. 8 

'Join Taylor Co. Ltd. 30 


HELP WANTED 

Full-time Gamp administrator and 
director to operate children’s .summer 
camp. 

BOX 730, Canadian Camping, 

170 Bloor St. W., Toronto 5, Ont. 


Fully experienced^-• mature camp 
director and administrator required to 
take charge of small, established girls’ 
camp in Ontario. . Winter address in 
Toronto. Female preferred. Excellent 
opportunity for right party. 

BOX 731, Canadian Camping, 
17Q. Bloor St. W., Toronto 5, Ont. 

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING RATES: 

Twenty cents a word, minimum five dollars. 

All classified payable in advance. Address all 
correspondence to “Canadian Camping”, 170 
Bloor Street West, Toronto, Ontario. 


from p'lge 10 

—The formation of a National French 
Section of the Association has been 
approved in principle by a majority 
vote of the branches. A committee, 
under the chairmanship of Bob 
Lazanik, is working out details and 
will present a report at our next 
Annual Meeting. We are pleased 
that things are working out so well 
in this regard. 

—During the past summer a number 
o.f our member camps undertook 
Intcrcultural or Intergroup Camping 
projects. We know that there are 
others who would like to explore 
further the possibilities of such an 
undertaking. During the past few 
months your executive has been 
gathering information on projects 
and is presently exploring ways to 
bring together interested Directors 
for an Evaluation and Training 
Seminar. 

Mrs. Lome Brown, 

President. 


BOAT ACCESSORIES 

for every type of Water Craft 

A complete line of equipment for every marine need carried in 
our showrooms — 

SAILS - HARDWARE - ROPE - CANVAS - PAINTS - VARNISHES 
GLUES and COMPOUNDS, Etc. 

TOM TAYLOR LIMITED 

The Best in Quality and Service 

81 Front Street East EMpire 3-8761-2 Toronto, Ontario 


30 


Canadian Camping 


















Library Shell 

the generosity of Miss Edgar, profits 
from its sale will go to the C.G.I.T. 
1967 Centennial Camper Exchange 
Project. The book sells at $1.00. and 
may be obtained from The Depart¬ 
ment of Christian Education. Cana¬ 
dian Council of Churches, 40 St. Clair 
Avenue East. Toronto 7. 

FELL’S GUIDE TO CAMPING 
AND FAMILY FUN OUT DOORS 

by Nancy Cleaver 

This interesting book, recently pub¬ 
lished, is full of ideas on projects for 
boys and girls at camp, and contains 
delightful chapters on nature lore, plus 
a guide to the heavens in all seasons. 

The author (Evelyn Craw) is well 
known as a former leader in several 
private and organization camps in 
Canada, also at camp conferences. A 
glance at the chapter-headings sug¬ 
gests the practical nature of the con¬ 
tents, such as Camping Adventures; 
What’s Cooking?; Keep Everyone Safe 
and Well; The Skv. by Day and Night; 
Nature Lore Projects; Avoid Acci¬ 
dents; Games, Quizzes, etc.; Creative 
Hobbies; Three Vacation R’s: Summer¬ 
time Praise. The book, published in 
New York, is available at Ryerson 
Press. Toronto. $6.23. 

M.S.E. 

“CAMPING HOW-TO KIT” 

The Fitness and Amateur Sport 
Directorate of the National Health and 
Welfare Department announces the 
next in its series of “How-to Kits — - 
Camping.” 

A 16 m.m. colour Him and four 35 
m.m. colour Him strips, along with a 
manual, comprise this very informative 
and stimulating resource for the camp¬ 
ing field. Produced by the National 
Film Board, and the Federal Depart¬ 
ment of Health in co-operation with 


the Canadian Camping Association, 
these materials are valuable aids in 
simulating interest in camping and in 
the training of leaders for organized 
camps. 

The four Him strips deal with topics 
such as equipment; camp sites; fires 
and cooking; and canoeing; as skills 
basic to a satisfying experience in 
camping. 

Copies of the film, film strips, and 
the manual are available from our 
Canadian Camping office, and from 
the Quebec Camping Association office 
(French version). These have been 
generously provided free of charge by 
the Department of Health. 

A special thanks to Jack Pearse and 
Don Groff lor their part in acting as 
consultants for our Camping 
Association. 


from page 13 

a friendly, understanding adult can 
lead the way by accepting the camper 
for himself. It has been done and will 
be done again. Then there is a philoso¬ 
phy of life which provides a purpose, 
a reason for being. In my case I find 
this in and through religion. We can¬ 
not give another person religion; that 
is a matter between himself and God. 
But we can provide a groundwork of 
knowledge: we can make opportunities 
for worship and meditation: we can 
use stories, and poetry and music and 
appreciation of the world around us. 
to feed the spirit. 

Two weeks? One month? Even two 
months? How can we? Why should 
we? Aren’t there schools and churches 
and homes which should be doing this? 
What can a camp director do? Never, 
never underestimate the impact of the 
summer camp experience. Even one 
period of camp in a lifetime has a far 
greater influence than can be estimated 
by computers! — * 


Toronto , Canada, December 1965 


31 




Since 1954 campers have been paid over one quarter 
of a million dollars from this plan. Benefits paid are 
increasing each year — proof of the need for your 
camp-guard plan. 


*A choice of plans for all organizational, church and private camps 
providing broad medical expense protection for each accident and each 
sickness at low cost group rates for both campers and staff members. 


Put camp-guard on your programme. 
Display this symbol and let parents know 
your camp is covered. This symbol of 
outstanding coverage assures them you 
take added interest in your camper's wel¬ 
fare, by providing a camp-guard accident 
and sickness plan. 

Your local insurance agent will help you 
choose the right plan for your camp: or 
write our nearest office for full particulars. 


[ this CAMP is PROTECTED^ 

by 

ACCIDENT and SICKNESS 

INSURANCE 

DISPLAY THIS SYMBOL 

STICKERS AVAILABLE FOR YOUR STATIONERY 




CONTINENTAL CASUALTY COMPANY 


Suite 401, 1281 Georgia St. West 160 Bloor St. East 2100 Drummond Street 

VANCOUVER 5, TORONTO MONTREAL 

MUtual 4-6381 924-4692 Victor 9-5303 


Suite 660, 1 Thornton Court. EDMONTON. GA. 4-7322 

202-209 Notre Dame, WINNIPEG 2, WH. 3-8723 Suite 403, 600 6th Avenue S.W., CALGARY, AM. 3-1937 










