. Canadian 

camping 







CRAFTS IN CAMP 

Each year thousands of Canadian campers take home 
"Treasures" which they have made during the summer. 
Often these crafts are the spark which lights the 
fire of many warm memories of days spent with friends 
in another time and in another place. Here are a few 
ideas which you might find worth salting away for 
next summer. 

- The FUNGUS PIRATE is simply made by painting 
a face on an upsidedown fungus gathered from 
an old tree in the bush. The ragged exterior 
and flared bottom make a great face and cap. 

- The CLOTHESPIN ROCKER is just one idea for 
using old clothes pins. Other types of fur¬ 
niture and figures can be easily made using 
this material. 


Our thanks to Adventures Unlimited 
Camp in Ontario for their ideas. 

More on page 7 


OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE 
L’ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU 


CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 
CANADA — PUBLICATION OFFICIELLE 


Vol. 31 No. 6 
December 1979 


SUITE 2. 1806 AVENUE ROAD • TORONTO. ONTARIO M5M 3Z1 
TELEPHONE (416) 781-4717 


1 













Our New President 


I 



CLIFF LABBETT 


Now that Fall and Winter have arrived for us all - 
depending upon where you live in Canada - I hope 
our thoughts are once again turning to Camping Asso¬ 
ciation activity. I sincerely hope that you have 
had a successful summer camp and to those of you who! 
carry on during the fall and winter months, we hope ! 
this is going well also. All year camping is be-- 
coming increasingly popular across Canada and it is i 
an area where we as an Association can concentrate j 
more of our interest and activity. 

Inasmuch as I re-entered the C.C.A. picture less 
than a year ago when Eileen Mayotte resigned for 
personal reasons, it has taken me awhile to pick 
up the threads of executive activity again. I 
know I am very fortunate to have such capable 
people with me for the next two years. Derek 
Walsh , the Vice-President, is a past-president 
of Q.C.A. and will retain the Chairmanship of 
the C.C.A. Public Relations and Promotions Com¬ 
mittee, a position he has held for the past two 
years, along with his duties as V.P.. Elizabeth 


Greenway , a native of London, Ontario is Secretary of C.C.A. and is the Director of 
Camping for the Toronto Y.W.C.A.. Wayne Perkins is C.C.A. Treasurer and is cur¬ 


rently working for the Hamilton Y.M.C.A. as Director of Camp Wanakita. Jack Pearse, 
of course, is the Immediate Past President. 


The appointment of Marjorie Booth as Executive Director of the Association will be a 
tremendous help to all and we are looking forward to great steps ahead. This gives 
us one very capable person who can devote all of her time and talents to the progress 
and expansion of the services that C.C.A. gives to camping people across Canada. The 
various provinces have developed extremely well in the last few years and this gives 
all of us deep satisfaction to see children's camping progressing upwards and outwards. 

My first Board Meeting was held in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, on November 1 and 2, and 
: was well attended. Representatives came from all provinces and lively dialogue was 
the order of the day. One of the most promising reports to come out of this meeting 
was from the Skill Schools Committee composed of Eileen Mayotte, Jack Croteau, and 
LaVerne Jantz, all of Saskatchewan. C.C.A. started the Canoe Instructor's Schools 
which have now been turned over to the Provinces and also the Woodsmanship School 
which is almost ready to be turned over. This Committee is now considering schools 
in the following categories; Social Recreation, Nature Awareness, Fitness and all 
that it implies, Camp Organization and Administration, Native and Pioneer Crafts, 
and Communication. Once they have been developed it is hoped that they too will be 
taken over by the Provinces to disseminate the information to all parts of Canada. 
Another very exciting item on the agenda was the approval in principle of the 
holding of an International Conference in Toronto in February or March of 1983, with 
the Canadian Camping Association, the Ontario Camping Association and the American 
Camping Association joining forces. It is hoped that representation will also come 
from several European countries , Japan and India. John Latimer is chairing this 
Committee and we hope by early 1980 enough of the details will have been agreed 
upon that the Conference will have the "GO" signal. Watch for future announcements 
on this very exciting conference. 

(cont. on page 12 ) 


2 



Executive Director 

The Board of the Canadian Camping 
Association is very happy to announce 
the appointment of Miss Marjorie A. 

Booth of the Montreal Y.W.C.A. as the 
new Executive Director of C.C.A.. 

Marjorie will commence her new duties 
late in November and we all look for¬ 
ward to having her with us in this new 
position. This appointment is made 
possible by a grant from Fitness and 
Amateur Sport and we are grateful to 
our Consultant, Mr. Karl Benne, for his 
assistance and support in this regard. 

Marjorie is a native of Toronto, and 
received her early education there. She 
attended the University of Waterloo, 
where she obtained an Honours degree in 
Recreation. Marjorie had a varied 
career during her formative years, wor¬ 
king with youth in many capacities and 
for the last few years worked full time with the Saint John Y.W.C.A., and most re¬ 
cently as the director of Camp Oolahwan, the Montreal Y.W.C.A. camp, located north 
of Montreal. 

Marjorie has been very active in association activities, both on the Executive and 
in Committee work. She has been a fellow of the Society of Camp Directors since 
1977. Marjorie's hobbies emphasize her love of the out-of-doors and camping and 
this has been nurtured by her family who participate whole-heartedly in community 
affairs. 

It is our hope that during the next six months, Marjorie will be able to meet many 
camping people in all the provinces across Canada and to familiarize herself with 
the needs and aspirations of all. This is a giant step forward for C.C.A. and we 
look forward to greater participation by all in C.C.A. affairs. 

Marjorie says , "Boy - what a busy week I've had! When I began at the C.C.A. of¬ 
fice last Monday I was really excited about finally 'getting on with the job'. 

Thank goodness our C.C.A. Board members and volunteers are in touch with the office 
so frequently. I've learned so much already that I even feel ready for the meetings 
with Fitness and Amateur Sport and the National Sport and Recreation Centre in Otta¬ 
wa. " 

"Un grand merci a 1'Association des Camps d'Ontario. Tout le personnel etait ami¬ 
cable et m'a souhaite une bienvenue tres speciale. C'est toujours amusant de rencon¬ 
tre les membres de 'O.C.A.' si souvent." 

"Early in 1980 I will meet many of you at your provincial workshops, meetings and 
conferences. Please let me know how I can assist you in your association - wh#t 
an opportunity to be able to work and learn with you all!" 

"Enfin, je veux dire a tout le monde, 'Meilleurs souhaites pour l'annee 1980' - 
je suis tellement excitee de vous rencontre tot." 

"Best wishes for the holidays and 1980 - I'll see you soon!" 

Amities en camping 



3 



PROGRAM 

THE CHILDREN GROW... THE FOREST GROWS 


When one thinks of a children's summer camp, quickly the mind can envision 
canoeing, hiking, archery, games and campfires. Although most of the childrens' 
camps in Canada are in a wilderness setting, limited serious attempts have been 
made to utilize the forest to its fullest potential. Natural interpretation, 
mapping, management study or identification of boundaries, all could be and were 
some of the concrete results obtained from the work of Camp Thunderbird's 
Forestry Counsellor. 

On Southern Vancouver Island, the Victoria YM-YWCA operates Camp Thunderbird. 
Over a period of several months, literally thousands of young people had the 
opportunity to experience the forest of the Camp's 1,300 acre site. As the "Y" 
considered the program of the camp together with the future potential of the 
property, it became clear that some sort of nature program focusing on the BC 
forest, together with a forest cover management study, would be desirous and 
indeed essential. 

With the assistance of foresters Mark Atherton and Vlad Korelus, a person 
was recruited and the work began in early May. The prime objective for the 
interpretative part of the work was to generate interest and develop an under¬ 
standing and appreciation for the forest. To accomplish this, the forestry 
counsellor conducted sessions using various equipment typical of forestry work 
(ie. increment borer, chain, diameter tapes, compass, clinometer, etc.) Not 
only could the campers become familiar with the usefulness of the equipment, but 
could also understand the results of the work. 

Using the increment bore to extract a core of wood, the tree's age and 
rate of growth could be determined. The height of trees was easily calculated 
with the use of the chain and clinometer. Using the tree's height together 
with the measurement of a diameter tape, the volume of wood could also be found. 
These 'projects' were typical of the involvement that the campers had. In 
addition, property lines were located and marked, a base map (1:5000) was 
developed, the identification of forest units in need of treatment, and the 
implementation of a fire safety program were all included. 



These sessions together with some assistance from the Canadian Institute 
of Forestry, led to the achievement of the objectives of the forest management 
plan for the site. By the end of August, a base map and forest cover management 
plan were completed. With this, one could see where and how the forest grew 
and should continue to grow. So too, the children grew. They left camp with 
a basic knowledge of the forest and its potential. More significantly, they 
can now better appreciate the importance of the forests of British Columbia. 

At this time, the Victoria "Y" can better understand how their property 
could be used to its fullest potential. Be it recreation, outdoor education 
or logging. The possibilities exist for all three to take place on this one 
site simultaneously. In fact, each of these major focuses will help contribute 
to the success of the others. It is now the intention of the ,, Y M to implement 
the recommendations of the management plan so that the site will better serve 
the future needs of the Victoria community. 


For advice on such a program, contacts Canadian Institute of Forestry 

c/o McDonald College 
Box 5000 

Montreal, Quebec 
HOA ICO 


HE STOOD AS A GREAT PINE 


He stood as a great pine, his roots deep set in the ground. 

He kindled the fire of friendship, that others might warm their hands. 

He felt the tug of the challenge, but would not let go of the rope. 

He knew of the fear-wind, but it could not cut the sinews of his heart. 

He blew the smoke of the peace pipe in the face of the quarreling braves, 
so that they had to lower their thunder fists and cough. 

He carried the brave with a broken wing to his teepee, when others turned 
their faces to the side. 

He would not hold a tomahawk over another’s head, until he had walked for 
ten days in the other brave's mocassins. 

He tickled those who wore long faces with an eagle's feather. 

He made a necklace of love, and hung it around a women's neck. 

He gave many gifts of kindness to other braves, which he wished them to 
send back. 

He stood as a great pine, his roots deep set in the ground. 


Douglas Tisdall 






Native TREES 
of Canada 


THE SWAKSS 

of Canada 


The COUNSELLORS Pa 


As the longer winter nights are with us there is more time to 
spend reading. Here are some books which you might find use¬ 
ful in planning for the summer ahead. Be sure to check the 
Publications pages in this and previous issues of CANADIAN 
CAMPING for other good titles. Many independent bookstores 
carry a free publication "Booksellers Choice" which has additional titles which could be 
of interest. 


WINTER READING 


fNATIVE TREES OF CANADA 
Environment Canada — Forestry 
Service 

A well-organized and beautifully 
illustrated book, useful for reference, 
delightful for browsing. 116 trees 
described as to form, habitat, size, 
leaves, cones, twigs, bark, wood, 
seedlings and importance. 
660-00279-5 (80) 1969 
380 pp, 6 3 /4x10, 116 bw Ulus. 450 bw & 
25 c photos, $6.00 pb 


THREE AGAINST THE 

WILDERNESS 

Eric Collier 

The true life adventure story of how a 
family created a home for themselves 
in the wilderness of British Columbia, 
supporting themselves by trapping 
animals. 

7720-0211-8 (18) 1971 
321 pp, 4^x7% $3.25 pb 


fTHE EDIBLE WILD 

B. Berglund and C. Bolsby 

Sharply illustrated and bulging with 
forest to fork dishes. The Edible Wild 
combines succr’^nt recipes with the 
“sour grass" ro , of wilderness 
survival. 

6841-2759-8 (72) 1971 

188 pp, 5'/2x8, 50 Ulus., $3.50 pb 

Also Available: 

WILDERNESS COOKING, $3.95 pb 
WILDERNESS SURVIVAL, $3.95 pb 


INSTANT WEATHER 

FORECASTING IN CANADA 

Alan Watts 

A basic guide to foretelling the 
weather by means of forecast tables 
in conjunction with colour 
photographs of cloud pictures. 
7736-0010-8 (35) 1968 
64 pp, 8 3 ux5'h, 5 bw & 24 c Ulus., $4.95 he 


WILD FLOWERS OF 
EASTERN CANADA 
Katherine Mackenzie 

Charming water colours of most 
common plants of region, painted 
from living flowers. Simple text gives 
pioneer folklore, Indian uses. 

00-211-951-X (95) 1973 
96 pp, 5 1 l2x4'/2, Ulus., $2.95 pb 


THE DANGEROUS RIVER 

R.M. Patterson 

A record of outdoor adventure in 
northern Canada by a master of 
simple, evocative prose. A classic 
88826-042-3 (37) 1973 
272 pp, 4'/4 x 7, photos, $1.95 pb 


tWILDLIFE OF CANADA 
IN COLOUR 
Bill Brooks 

This beautiful and informative book 
by the well-known Canadian 
photographer and naturalist covers a 
representative grouping of Mammals, 
Birds and Fish found in various 
regions across the Country. Each 
animal is superbly illustrated in full 
colour together with a comprehensive 
accompanying text. 

88882-010-0 (47) 1976 

96 pp, 8x10, 45 c Ulus., $9.95 he 


EDIBLE AND POISONOUS 
MUSHROOMS OF CANADA 
Agriculture Canada 

A colourful, readable and informative 
guide to help identify edible and 
poisonous mushrooms. Includes 
general information as well as 
descriptions of specific mushrooms. 
(80) 1975 

316 pp, 6 3 /4XlO, 93 bw & 337 c photos, 
$9.75 he 


THE STARS BELONG TO 
EVERYONE 

HOW TO ENJOY ASTRONOMY 
Helen Sawyer Hogg 

An indispensable how-to book for 
amateur sky-watchers that gives 
directions for viewing the interesting 
sights in the sky without a telescope. 
385-12302-7 (27) 1976 
274 pp, 6x9, 60 bw Ulus., $12.50 he 


NATURE QUIZZES FOR 

CANADIANS 

Vicky and Bill McMillan 

A fun way of learning all about birds 
and trees, ferns and flowers, mosses 
and mushrooms. Artful quizzes, clear 
crossword puzzles, intriguing “spot 
the error" drawings. Scientifically 
accurate. 

0-88894-109-9 (28) 1976 
120 pp, 572X872, Ulus., $3.95 pb 


THE SNAKES OF CANADA 

Barbara Froom 

A definitive handbook on all the 
snakes in Canada, dispelling fears and 
cautioning against dangers. 
7710-3186-6 (58) 1972 
128 pp, 57?x8 3 /<, photos, $5.95 pb 


6 





BIRCHBARK DISH is simply made by using 
water-soaked birchbark then cut - sta¬ 
pled together and trimmed with a very 
sharp knife (eg. X - ACTO) of course its 
waterproof too. 




VASE - made from bottle chosen for its 
interesting shape and wide mouth 
covered with masking tape, then stained 
then covered with plastic spray 


FROG FIGURE is made by tacking small 
nails evenly in a softwood board then 
using coloured threads to show off 
your shape. 


CUTTING BOARD - made of pine which has 
been sanded, painted and covered with 
a hard, clear finish. 







NUMBERING CANOES 


One way of keeping track of your canoes 
as well as how long they are lasting is 
to number them as illustrated. 

For example; this was the sixth canoe 
purchased in 1975. 

This system aids in easy camper and 
staff identification as well as instil¬ 
ling an attitude of care and respect 
for the canoes. It also makes it easy 
to assign canoes for trips as well as 
checking for damage upon their return. 
Try it, see how the campers interest 
improves. 


WE NEED YOUR HELP! 


Certificates for attendance at C.C.A. 
Woodsmanship Leaders' Schools in 1976, 
1977 and 1978, have at last been mailed 
to those who achieved the required stan¬ 
dards of the schools. A few have been 
returned to the office "address unknown" 

If anyone knows the proper addresses of 
any of the following will they please 
let us know. 


COMMITMENT 


,r We must not in the course of public 
life expect immediate approbation and 
immediate grateful acknowledgement of 


1978 School 


Last address 
8 Highburn Cres. 
Ottawa, Ontario 


Susan Crawford 


1977 School 


44-8 Frontenac St. 
Kingston, Ontario 


through abuse and even injury. The 
internal satisfaction of a good 


1976 School 


Louise Hutchinson 47 Bralone Cres. SW. 

Calgary, Alberta 

Louise Luanberg 59 Spadina Rd 

Toronto, Ontario 

John Morrison 2901 St. Clair Ave., E 

Apt. 11 

Toronto, Ontario 

Dan Rice 1343 West 49th Ave., 

Vancouver, B.C. 

Brian Rose Box 118 

Markdale, Ontario 


will do us justice in the minds of the 


people, even of those at present the 


most prejuiced against us." 


Benjamin Franklin, 1772 


8 





National Convention 

Boston, Massachusetts — February 11-16,1980 

Hosted by: New England Section, American Camping Association 

Sheraton-Boston and Hynes Auditorium 


* 

Convention Schedule I 


PRE-CONVENTION SCHEDULE 


Feb. 5-8 

ACA Model “B” Camp Director 
Institute at Ashland, MA 

Feb. 8-10 

ACA Certified Camp Director Re¬ 
certification Seminar at Ashland, 
MA 

Feb.12 

“Special Populations’’ meetings 
begin with an Open Forum in the 
Evening 

Feb. 10-13 

Kindred Group Meetings 
Association of Catholics in Camping 
Camp Fire 

Council of Religiously Affiliated 
Camps 

Easter Seals Camp Directors 
Girl Scouts of U.S.A. 

International Association of Con¬ 
ference Center Administrators 
Lutheran Camp Directors 
National 4-H Directors 
Private Independent Camps 
Salvation Army 
Seventh Day Adventists 
United Church of Christ 
United Methodist 
YMCA 

CONVENTION OPENS 


11:30 a.m. Grand Opening Exhibit 
Hall 

1:30 p.m. Opening General Session 


Friday, Feb. 15 

8:00a.m. Continental Breakfast 
Available in Hynes 
Auditorium 


3:30 p.m. Slide Presentation of 
Boston Area 
Council of Delegates 

5:45 p.m. President’s Reception 

6:45 p.m. Convention Banquet 


9:00 a.m. Workshops/Seminars/ 
Interest Sessions 
Professional Task Groups 
Council of Delegates Open 
Hearing 
Job Mart 
Boston Tours 


8:30 p.m. Square Dancing 


2:00 p.m. Exhibits Close 


Thursday, Feb. 14 

7:15 a.m. General Session Breakfast 

10:00 a.m. Workshops/Seminars/ 
Interest Sessions 
Professional Task Groups 
Boston Tours 


3:30 p.m. Council of Delegates 
Open Hearings 

5:00 p.m. Party with Exhibitors 
Dinner (on your own) 

8:30 p.m. “I Believe” Program 

“Pops” Style Evening 
with New England Con¬ 
servatory’s Ragtime 
Ensemble 


6:00 p.m. Night on the Town (your 
choice)—Escorted Din¬ 
ner, Theatre, and Muse¬ 
um Parties, Sleigh Ride 
Supper 

Saturday, Feb. 16 

7:15 a.m. General Session Breakfast 

10:00 a.m. Workshops/Seminars/ 
Interest Sessions 
Section Meetings 
Job Mart 
Boston Tours 
Council of Delegates 
Concluding ACA Board 
Meeting 

5:30 p.m. Convention Closes 


Wednesday, Feb. 13 
8:00 a.m. ACA Special Workshops 
ACA Regional Meetings 
Boston Tours 



See you in Boston! Book now for pre- 
andpost-convention vacations. 


PROVINCIAL CAMPING ASSOCIATIONS 


British Columbia Camping Association 

Dr. Don Arnold, President 
217 Ponderosa Annex "A" West Mall 
University of British Columbia 
Vancouver, B.C. V6T 1W9 

Alberta Camping Association 

Dr. Lou Lanier, President 

c/o Y.M.C.A. 332 6th Ave., S.W. 

Calgary, Alberta T2P 0R5 

Saskatchewan Camping Association 

Mr. LaVeme Jantz, President 
Box 7543 

Saskatoon, Sask. S7K 2L5 

Manitoba Camping Association 

Mrs. Shanley Parkinson, President 
Box 241 

Winnipeg, Manitoba 

Ontario Camping Association 

Mrs. Barbara Gilchrist, President 
1806 Avenue Road Suite 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 

Association des Camps du Quebec 

M. Raymond Bonneau, President 
1415 est, rue Jarry 
Montreal, Quebec H2E 2Z7 

New Brunswick Camping Association 

Mr. Bill Reeves, President 
343 A St. George Street 
Moncton, New Brunswick E1C 1W8 

Nova Scotia Camping Association 

Mr. George Matthews, President 
Box 3243 S 

Halifax, Nova Scotia B3J 3H5 

Newfoundland and Labrador Camping Assn . 

Mrs. Elizabeth Wegenast, President 
Box 4188 

St. John's, Newfoundland A1C 5Z7 


PUBLICATIONS 

Some new books now available at the 
C.C.A. office 

1806 Avenue Road Suite 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 

The Cooperative Sports and Games Book 

$ 4.95 


Leading to Share Sharing to Lead 4.00 

Concise Book of Winter Camping 2.95 

Cross Country Ontario 3.95 

Cross Country Canada 6.95 

Boat Carpentry 7.95 

Everyone's Guide to Home Composting 5.75 

Home in Tour Pack 2.75 

Edible Wild Plants 5.50 

The New Way of the Wilderness 3.95 

The Complete Woodsman 4.95 

The Practice of Creativity 3.95 

How to Stay Alive in the Woods 2.75 

Knowing the Outdoors in the Dark 3.95 

Wilderness Canoeing 6.75 

Complete Guide to Orienteering in 

North America 5.95 


Postage will be paid on all prepaid 
orders. 


WINTER OUTDOOR SPORTS SKILLS INSTITUTE 

The C.C.A. Winter Outdoor Sports Skills 
Institute will be held from Wednesday 
evening, February 13 to Monday morning, 
February 18, 1980. For further infor¬ 
mation, please contact your local Pro¬ 
vincial Camping Office. 


10 






L^WV ■ ■i| « ■ 


Dispose of camp food 
^ service problems with 

royal Chinet 

disposable plates and bowls 


Strong, attractive Royal CHINET food service products help you ... 

• DISPOSE OF DISHWASHING COSTS 

Cut the expense of installing, maintaining and manning equipment 
that is used only a few months of the year. 

• DISPOSE OF BREAKAGE 

Save yourself the trouble and expense of buying matching replace¬ 
ments for pieces that crack, chip and shatter. 

• DISPOSE OF FOOD WASTE 

You get exact portion control with Royal CHINET’s wide range of 
sizes in regular and compartmented designs. 

• DISPOSE OF GERM COLLECTORS 

Royal CHINET products are sterilized when manufactured and 
packaged. And there’s never a germ-collecting chip, crack or 
poorly washed dish. 

• DISPOSE OF IRRITATING NOISE 

Disposable service is silent service. Meals are relaxed without the 
clatter and crash of china or metal. 

ENVIRONMENTAL ADVANTAGES, TOO 

All good campers want to protect the environment. Royal CHINET prod¬ 
ucts are manufactured from a renewable resource. What’s more, they’re 
biodegradable .. . molded of natural wood fibres that burn readily with 
little smoke. Even if discarded out-of-doors, Royal CHINET quickly de¬ 
composes in the earth. 

Get the full particulars now. Mail this coupon today. 


CANADIAN KEYES FIBRE COMPANY LTD 
HANTSPORT, NOVA SCOTIA 

Please provide me with details of the variety and costs of Royal 
CHINET food service products. 


NAME_ 

COMPANY or CAMP 
ADDRESS _ 


PROV 


11 










- COMING EVENTS - 


FOR BENT 


0.C.A. Board Weekend/Vineland 

C.C.A. Exec Meeting/Vancouver 

B. C.C.A. Workshop/Vancouver 

A .C .A. Conference/Yamnuska 

A.C.A. Convention/Boston 

C. C.A. Winter Sports Skills 

C.C.A. Exec Meeting/Halifax 

A.C.Q. Semaine des Camps Feb 

O.C.A. Conference/Toronto 

S.C.A. Conference/Meunster 

A.C.Q. Assemblee Annuelle 

C.C.A. Board Meeting/Toronto 

C.C.A. Annual Meeting/Toronto 

O.C.A. Counsellor Conference 


dan 18/19 
Jan 24/25 
Jan 25/26 
Jan 25-27 
Feb 11-16 
Feb 13-18 
Feb 17 
28 - Mar 5 
Mar 6-8 
Apr 25-27 
Mai 8 
May 8-9 
May 9 
May 10 


Property for rent - to clubs, community, 
religious, company or other groups for 
adult, children, or family camping; 75 
acres, 3 lakes, large wharf, diving 
board and tower, playing field, build¬ 
ings, electricity, central water system, 
former boys' camp; weekly, monthly or 
season: 70 miles from Montreal near 
LaChute, Quebec. Call (514) 697-6242 


Position Wanted 

Camp Director, 9 years experience, seeks 
senior position with opportunity for 
partnership or purchase. 


Please write: 


A MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT 


J.D. Varey 
21 White Birch Road 
Scarborough, Ontario 
MIN 3A7 


continued from page 2 

If any of you are in Toronto we will be more than pleased to hear from you and have 
you visit the C.C.A. office at 1806 Avenue Rd. We share space with the O.C.A. so 
that you can visit with them at the same time. Marjorie Booth and Mary Roy will be 
at the office to assist whenever possible. Keep us posted of the various Provincial 
activities and we will distribute the information to all parts of the Association 
via the Newsbulletin. 


6TT£-800 NSSI 


IZC wsn Old VINO OlNOdOl 
OVOd 30N3AV 908L Z 31109 

npmw.y np srfu/o.) sap uopoposst) 
uoijoposw Bunkum umpnuvj 



