Canadian 

campina 


Official Publication The Canadian Camping Association Vol. 29 

Publication Officielle L'Association des Camps du Canada No. 1 

102 Eglinton Aye., E. , Suite 203_Toronto, Ontario M4P 1E1 Februar.y 1977 


NEWS 

AND VIEWS 

FROM ACROSS CANADA 

British Columbia 

The outline of the Camp Directors' 
Certification is noW published, and is a 
document which should be of interest to 
every Camp Director across Canada. Copies 
can be obtained by writing the B.C.C.A., 
633 West 8th Street, Vancouver, V5Z 1C7 

The Camping fellowship across Canada 
will indeed be very saddened to hear of 
May Brown's decision to close the doors 
on Camp Deka.... truly one of the finest 
independent camps in this country. Al¬ 
though May will be pursuing many of her 
current interests in Municipal politics, 
we can only offer our thanks, gratitude 
smd deepest appreciation to May and her 
husband, the late Lome Brown, for the 
contribution they have made to the fu¬ 
ture of Canada as a result of their in¬ 
fluence, guidance and belief in the thou¬ 
sands of young boys and men who have 
been a part of Deka. An era has come to 
an end!!! 

B.C. have also announced their plans 
to establish an up-to-date list of all 
of those from their Province who have 
attended National Courses, Conferences 
and Workshops over the past five years. 
What are these people doing now? What 
have the offered to camping as a result 
of their involvement in these workshops? 


It might be a wise move, both financial 
and moral, for other Provinces to consider 
this idea. 

A new programme has just been announced 
...a Nature Awareness programme.. organized 
by Paul ©ampier.... five single days .... 
concluding wit&. a week-end workshop.... 
Registration will be limited. 

Alberta 

Gary! Luthy reports very positive results 
are becpftiing apparent as a result of the 
re-vitalized membership drive recently 
initiated 1 in this Province, fere members 
will mean increased support for many com¬ 
mittees... particularly the one responsible 
for the imminent publication of "The Di¬ 
rector's Guide for Counsellor Training". 
This should be a tremendously valuable re¬ 
source for every Canadian Camp Director. 

For more information, contact; Mr. Gary 
Luthy, A.C.A., 332 6th Avenue, Calgary, 
Alberta T2P 0R5. 

Saskatchewan 

Chairman Graham Boyd has recently an¬ 
nounced details for the Annual Meeting 
and Spring Conference of the S.C.A., being 
held this year at the “Waskesiu Centre, 

May 13-15. 

Saskatchewan recently suggested to the 
Board of the C.C.A., that consideration be 
given to establishing a marketing centre 
for certain products which would be of in¬ 
terest to many Canadian Directors. This 
suggestion is now being studied. 

(cont. on page 2) 











News and Views 


(cont. from page l) 


for staff and Directors. 


Manitoba 

As is the case with many of the other 
Provinces, there is great concern as to 
"Where are we going? 11 . Hence the great 
interest in and support of the current 
Task Force deliberations.• • Punch Jackson 
reports that the M.C.A. is very grateful 
for the continued support it receives from 
the Provincial Government. 

Ontario 

Kirk Wipper reports that he is pleased 
that the Past-Presidents / Council is quick¬ 
ly taking shape, and will be bound to have 
a significant effect on camping in Ontario. 
...In addition a re-vitalized finance 
committee is giving careful study to every 
conceivable method of fund raising.... 

Recently, Ontario hosted the Board of 
C.C.A. at a "Campference" held in Sault 
Ste. Marie. Russ Dennison worked closely 
with the Board of Ontario in developing 
this regional workshop. 

New appointments to the O.C.A. Board... 
Bob Christensen has assumed the heavy 
responsibility for Standards; and John 
McRuer is now Chairman of the Wilderness 
Travel Committee. 

Quebec 

Support from the Provincial Government 
is still very evident in this Province, 
and a close liaison exists when it comes 

to new legislation. $ 300,000 is being_ 

given to the Association for their spring 
Training Programme.... Some of the up¬ 
coming events in Quebec include "Camp Week" 
(March 5-11)• This programme is obviously 
one which is meant as a promotion for the 
camps in this Province....promotional spots 
ori radio and television; advertisements 
and public service announcements in every 
newspaper; buttons, posters; badges etc. 
will all be used to make everyone in Quebec 
more aware of camping opportunities for 
children and young people in that Province, 

We are pleased to see the name of Rosaire 
Corbin back on the roster of personnel with 
the A.C.Q.- Q.C.A.. Rosaire is responsible 
| for all of the upcoming training programmed 


Highlight of the spring will no doubt be 
the 4oth Anniversary Banquet of the Eng¬ 
lish section on March 26 th. 

Congratulations!!!! 

New Brunswick 

One of the greatest projects of this 
past year has been a tremendous amount 
of work on Standards. The first draft is 
now ready for presentation to the member¬ 
ship. This is a big step in the history 
of this relatively new Association. They 
are starting now to plan a fall conference 
which will tie in with the Board Meeting 
o f the—C • G-rAr*- - 

Nova Scotia 

Cape Breton was the scene of a re¬ 
gional meeting of the Nova Scotia Camping 
Association. As is the case in so many 
other Provinces, there is a great deal 
of difficulty in involving camping per¬ 
sonnel from areas which are distant from 
the main centres. Although the answers 
are not easily found, many positive and 
worthwhile suggestions are shared at every 
meeting of the National Board of the C.C.A. 
Indeed such meetings are very helpful 
and fruitful as Presidents and Represen¬ 
tatives from every Province meet together. 
... But back to Nova Scotia, George 
Matthews also reports that progress is 
being made and that a submission has been 
presented to the Nova Scotia Government 
for funds to hire a part-time Executive 
,_Direc±or_.--- 

Newfoundland and Labrador 

From Barbara Taylor’s living room, we 
learn of news that the Annual Meeting and 
Airing Conference of the Newfoundland and 
Labrador Camping Association is going to 
be held this year in conjunction with t$ie 
University and Teacher's College in St. 
John's. 

The Executive of the Association is al¬ 
so pleased to report that more and more 
invitations are being received for mem¬ 
bers of the camping movement to talk on 
behalf of organized camping. In addition, 

(cont. on page 10) 




A Summary of Points Related to Promotion and Public -Relations 
Finding and Keeping; Campers 

1* Sources 

The Primary source of names of potential campers is "old" campers. Space 
should be provided on the application to ask for names of friends and relatives. 
In addition, two or three applications can be sent to old campers. 

- Certain cub, scout and guide groups will allow a Camp Director to send a 
mailing to their membership. Many service clubs are also looking for 
good speakers. 

- Most school principals are reluctant to have Camp Directors come to 
show slides and movies, but some have been known to allow a different 
representative group of camp directors to get together and show slides, 

ie. large boys camps, large girls camps, co-ed, small camp, day camp, e'tc. 

- Some camps offer a bonus to staff members or a reduction of fees to campers 
who bring in new campers. 

- Regarding advertising; be wary about advertising in large urban newspapers. 
The suburan weeklies are more "homey" and certainly not as expensive. 

School year books as well as home-and-school publications can prove very 
valuable as are some other publications which get into the homes of the 
clientele you are trying to reach. 

2. Pursuing the "Leads" 

Assume you now have names - a personal (not mimeographed) letter should be 
sent to the prospective parent or camper, along with the brochure and any other 
information relating to the rates and dates, etc. Many camps produce brochures 
which last two, three or four years, since the high cost of printing is* de¬ 
creased over this period of time. Only a revised application form need be re¬ 
printed each year. 

- The brochure must have two aims; a good selection of pictures must provide 
for the parent , answers to questions related to safety and supervision, 
philosophy, staff experience, leadership, etc., while the pictures and 
script for the children (don’t make it too lengthy) must show fun, laugh¬ 
ter, security, personal relationship between a counsellor and campers, 
and freedom. 

- Try not to cram too much into a brochure because it becomes confusing and 
hard to read. Don’t be afraid of white space. A well planned brochure 
is a good investment! 

- A personal visit to the home should then be arranged. Possibly two or 
three families might want to be together and if the Director does not live 
in the same town, maybe a staff member could at least make a visit and 
talk about the camp. On this visit the first item to be "sold" is of 
course - the Director. Is he the kind of director a camper wants, and is 
he the kind of director the parent wants? Both are seeing the the di¬ 
rector from different points of view. Slides and photographs should be 
shown. Care should be taken in selecting and showing the slides for at 
this point some slides may show activities of which the child is very 
fearful. He might then get "turned off". 

t _3__ (cont. on page 4 ) 



A Summary of Points / , « 

J tcont. from page 3J 

- Following the visit, a personal thank-you letter is often time well spent. 

- Many camps invite new and prospective campers to their reunions. This 
might not be a productive move, for new campers are not ’with it 1 . Any 
’in 1 slides bring gales of laughter from old campers but to the potential 
new camper there might be only confusion and frustration. Have separate 
meetings for new campers. 

- It is wise to send name and addresses of old parents to prospective pa¬ 
rents so that mothers and fathers may have an informal "chat". 

3. Maintaining the Contact 

Assuming that the camper is registered and that all of his questions have been 
answered, let us now get to camp. 

We must make one other assumption - that the child is going to have an exciting, 
profitable experience at camp! - 

The first responsibility of the Camp Director is to get to know all of his campers 
..and get to know them well....especially their names - from the first day, if 
possible. At the end of the summer, a letter of assessment from the Director is 
extremely valuable and altnough very time consuming, it does show the parent that 
the Camp Director is interested in each individual camper. Of course, depending 
on the size of the camp, this will mean that there must be a very accurate method 
of receiving a full report from each counsellor. 

- Good public relations also means good staff involvement, not only at Camp 
but throughout the whole year. Somehow a feeling that it is "our" camp 
must be instilled in all staff. The relationships, not only in the sum¬ 
mer, but during the rest of the year, between the Director and the staff 
are extremely important. They must be close, personal, friendly and above 
all, trusting. 

- Birthday cards help to keep the Camp name in front of the camper all year. 

- Christmas cards are important and time should be spent planning this card 
as a form of promotion. 

- Some camps have produced excellent Calendars. 

- Newsletters sent out two or three times a year can be very valuable. 
Possibly campers can be ’reporters’ from various areas of the city and 
two or three staff can act as editors. 

- Reunions; there are several types of reunions involving parents and campers, 
campers alone, formal banquets, teas, receptions, swim meets, and if the 
camp is close enough to the city, maybe all of the campers can be invited 
up to the camp for a day in the Winter. At reunions, if slides are shown 
they should be slides of people - fun slides - and good activity slides 
which will trigger campers’ happy memories. 

- If a time limit has been given on return of applications, there should be 
a definite follow through with those parents from whom you have not heard. 
Follow this right through, because those with the criticisms and those 
who perhaps do the most talking, are those who are the most reluctant to 
let you know what went wrong the previous year. However, every complaint 
should be thoroughly investigated and this information is then used in 

4 (cont. on page 11) 








RESPONSIBILITY 


by Eileen Mayotte 

(reprinted - from the Saskatchewan Camping Association Newsletter - October 1976) 

"Responsibility is attained slowly, it requires daily practice in exercising 
judgement and in making choices about matters appropriate to one’s age and compre¬ 
hension." Haim G. Ginott in his book Parent-Child continues and his next remark 
is adapted to the camping situation, "Responsibility is fostered by allowing the 
campers a voice, a choice in matters that affect them." 

We in the camping field have said repeatedly and believe that we deal with the 
youths, the most valuable commodity that this country produces. These campers 
represent the future of Canada. Because our future depends upon youth, we too have 
a responsibility, not just to guide...not just to provide a program...not just to 
teach a skill...not just to provide a safe camp...not just to provide good nutri¬ 
tion, but to be sure that the camper has an opportunity to realize his potential 
and more important has an opportunity to reach it. The awareness of potential,the 
growth, the self worth of a camper is determined firstly by himself, secondly by 
his cabin counsellor and thirdly by the remainder of the camp staff. 

Growth of the camper is not determined by the size of the camp, or the latest 
equipment; it is entirely dependent upon his own motivation, the camp leadership 
and particularly upon his cabin counsellor. 

A wise counsellor will realize that he has a leadership resource in his own ca¬ 
bin group. Campers with careful guidance can become leaders in their own right. 

Do we involve the camper in group planning? Do we let campers know that they will 
be held accountable to others and themselves? Do we instill in campers an atti¬ 
tude of caring about themselves and others? Do we help campers to be sentitive to 
their own needs and desires and those of their fellow campers? 

Some people belive, and perhaps fear, that as the camper is given responsibility 
the counsellor may become less important. Rather, the counsellor’s role is more 
important as he becomes more aware of interaction within the group, recognizes 
where a word is needed to help the group reach a decision, but does not take the 
responsibility away from the camper. This is the reason we need mature and ex¬ 
perienced people as counsellors, those who can stand back and let things happen. 

Many camp directors believe that young campers cannot and should not make de¬ 
cisions regarding program. As people responsible for the success of the camp, se¬ 
lections must be made regarding the number of opportunities provided for the cam¬ 
pers. The point to make here is that the selecting belongs to the administration... 
the choosing should be the right of the camper. 

An activity chosen by a camper will be participated in with enthusiasm and hap¬ 
piness. If the camper is forced to participate without any decision on his part 
it could have an undesirable influence on the development of the young personality. 
Everything that the camper does, in some way, is a preparation for life. A child 
needs an opportunity to exercise judgement, make choices and develop his own stan¬ 
dards. 

The campers choice may not necessarily be the same as the counsellor’s. In a 

(cont. on page 6) 


5 



Responsibility ( cont . from page 5) 

cabin, the decision can be made as a 
group decision* Time and patience are 
needed* The program result*..be it a 
skit or a skill...may not have the per¬ 
fection that the adult expects. Remem¬ 
ber, the camper is not functioning to 
enhance the prestige of the cabin coun¬ 
sellor or the director. Campers love to 
plan, to carry through and evaluate... 
campers may not use this term* 

Their evaluation will be more criti¬ 
cal of their own production than any 
counsellor’s. As well as being critical 
of themselves, they will learn from their 
mistakes. The counsellor’s role again 
is to be aware of group interaction and 
to help the group see the positives in 
their evaluation. 

Ginott says that values cannot be 
taught directly* They are absorbed, and 
become part of the child only through 
his identification with, and emulation of 
persons who gain his love and respect. A 
camper who lives with criticism does not 
learn responsibility. He learns to con¬ 
demn himself, doubt his ability, find 
fault, and distrust others. 

Campers expect challenge, fun, excite¬ 
ment, new friends, a smile and a hand on 
the shoulder from his counsellor. He 
wants to be trusted, permitted to make 
choices, make mistakes, know he is wanted, 
day dream a little, do things with and 
for his counsellor, joke and laugh. These 
are some of the expectations of the_ cam- _ 
per and can be the beginning of the growth 
of the camper, whom we see as having a 
role in the future of our country. 


OLD CANOES 

Old canoes do not have to be scrapped. 
Saw them in two and have twice the fun. 
The raw edges can be covered with split 
garden hose. Campers will have a great 
time learning to manuver this half craft 
for the first time, but there’s nothing 
to it once you’re underway. 


NATURE’S THERMOMETER 

A tried and true method for having 
campers estimate the degree of tempera¬ 
ture. Count the cirps of a cricket for 
15 seconds, and add 35* The sum will 
closely approximate the true temperature, 
(Fahrenheit) for a cricket varies his rate 
of chirping with the temperature. 


FOREIGN COUNSELLORS 

The Employment Visa Certification 
Waiver has been amended to permit non¬ 
immigrants to work as camp counsellors, 
or in similar leadership roles, (not as 
kitchen staff or maintenance workers) in 
camps operated by the Canadian Camping 
Association. They do not need Canada 
Manpower certification that residents of 
Canada are unavailable for such employ¬ 
ment. 

Foreign counsellors should be provided 
with a letter from the Camp Director. The 
letter should note the occupation in which 
the bearer will be occupied, the location 
and duration of employment and particu¬ 
larly, that the employer is a member of 
the Canadian Camping Association. 

This letter, together with proper iden¬ 
tification, ie. valid passport, birth cer¬ 
tificate, etc., (driver’s licenses are not 
acceptable) should be presented to the im¬ 
migration officer at the point of entry 
into Canada# 

The non-immigrant is, of course, still 
subject to Immigration admission standards, 
but this ruling should simplify matters 
considerably for the foreign operators of 
camps in Canada, as well as for those who 
may wish to hire foreign counsellors. 

Provincial Association offices should 
send their Directory or an up-to-date list 
of member camps to each point of entry in 
their province with a letter making refer¬ 
ence to the ruling and explaining that 
membership in the Provincial Association 
automatically means membership in the 
Canadian Camping Association. 


6 



TO HART M. DEVENNEY 


There are those who lead lives of quiet consequence. Hart 
Devenney was a member of that select group. His broad experi¬ 
ence and variety of interests reveal a man whose contribution 
and influence lay very much in the constant devotion to young 
people* 

Although formal education in physical education and recreation 
was not readily accessible, Hart found his way to Springfield, 
Mass, where he received his B.Sc. and then on to McGill Univer¬ 
sity to earn his M.A. degree. He next turned to Yale Divinity 
School for a period of one year. It was at this point in his 
career that he met Rena Bickerton whom he happily married in 

1929. 

In 1939, Hart moved to Manitoba to become Director of Urban 
Youth Centres in that province. The next year found him in the 
R.C.A.F* auxiliary services which required travel to England, 
the Middle East, North Africa and Italy. Upon the termination 
of World War II, he assumed the post of Director for Physical 
Education and Recreation in the Province of Manitoba, where he 
remained for a very successful decade. 

In 19551 Hart moved to Ontario to serve as an inspector and then 
counsultant in Physical Education and Camping for Ontario. After 
thirteen years his attention turned to the managing editorship 
and assistant directorship of C.A.H.P.E.R. When that organiza¬ 
tion moved to Ottawa, Hart took on the responsibility of busi¬ 
ness administrator for Kandalore Camps. 

He was President of the Manitoba Physical Education Association 
in 19511 and then President of C.A.H.P.E.R. for the 1952-5^ term. 
In 19571 He became the director of the Ontario Camp Leadership 
Centre at Bark Lake, where he remained for many camping summers. 

Clearly, Hart M. Devenney was a pioneer who fought through many 
difficulties and personal trials to gain a breadth of outlook 
which evoked admiration and commanded respect. 

Our sympathy goes out to his wife Rena and their two sons Donald 
and Richard. We hope they will find comfort in the realization 
that *his many friends and fellow workers hold a special place 
for a man who has had a remarkable influence on so many. 


Kirk A. Wipper 




SOMETHING OF VALUE 


I would like to say a few words about the kind of world you and I are living in, 
and our place in it as leaders* 

We are living in a world which is changing rapidly* A world that some people feel 
has lost its way, while still others think we have just bet on the wrong horse, be¬ 
lieving that competition, but not co-operation was what made the world go ’round* 

A world that can send a man to the moon, but never in its long history has learned 
how to live together as people. A world that equates greatness and success with 
power, wealth, and the number of things we possess. A world in which the rich are 
getting richer and the poor are getting poorer. This then is the world which we are 
bequeathing to our younger generation. God may be in His Heaven, but certainly all 
is not well with the world. 

In recent years we have developed a new philosophy of life. We call it the situa¬ 
tion ethic. It means, in effect, that there are no absolutes, no rigid standards, 
and that everything in life is relative. For instance, it means that there is no 
such thing as black or white, simply gradations of gray....that there is no such 
thing as right or wrong, because what might be right in one situation, conceivably 
could be wrong in another. They say that it is not moral standards that determine 
what we do in a given situation, but rather the circumstances in which we find our¬ 
selves. Now this is a very convenient theory, and I must admit that there are some 
elements of truth in it, but if you accept it ”holus bolus’’, the sky becomes the li¬ 
mit... and you can rationalize yourself into doing anything, even to the point of 
committing murder. The Irish, the Arabs and the Africans can slaughter one another 
without compunction while clothing themselves in the robes of patriotism and as de¬ 
fenders of the faith. Businessmen and professional men can cut sharp corners, be 
yanked up in Court, be found guilty, and even say, with a degree of truthfulness, 
that as far as they are concerned, they have done nothing of which they are ashamed. 
The trouble with the situation ethic is that it leaves too much up to the individual. 
In fact, he virtually becomes a law unto himself. It is true that our standards 
change from time to time, as new discoveries are made, but the cold fact remains that 
we have to have some kind of code by which to live, or we just ’cop out 1 . 

It is no secret that many of our young people have rejected our materialistic way 
of life and have opted out. Unfortunately, few of them seem to come up with a better 
way. While other of our young people are baffled and bewildered by the absence of 
so many of the old landmarks, and are looking to us for guidelines and guideposts to 
keep them on the right track. Unfortunately, on'our part too often we come up with 
the wrong answers* All of which raises the question.... ”What kind of leaders are we 
anyway?” ”Are we just blind leaders of the blind?” ”Are we fiddling while Rome 
burns?” ”Is all that we have to offer our young people the ’status quo* with all of 
its vices as well as its virtues?” Surely it is true that where there is no vision, 
the people perish. And let us remember that something like fifteen civilizations have 
already come and gone scarcely leaving a trace. Or, are we the harbingers, the fore¬ 
runners of a new and better world where men will love one another, beat their swords 
into plowshares, and at least make a beginning in learning how to think and act in 
terms of the common good 2 

Too much cannot be said about the founders of organized camping in this country. 
The furtherest thing from their minds was making money. Practically without excep¬ 
tion, they were impelled into camping by their desire to help youngsters to be happy, 
to live the good life and to hit-it-off on all eight cylinders. Taylor Statten and 
Mary Edgar, just to mention two, typified in their persons the dedication of those 
who laid the foundation for organized camping in Canada. These were the people who 

_ a_ 




Something of Valu e (cont . fron page g) 

believed that a rich and a happy camp ex¬ 
perience was the heritage of every Canadian 
child. 

When the Canadian Camping Association 
was formed back in 1936 , it was an act of 
faith, pure and simple. It was only a 
dream, a dream which someday we hoped would 
come true, because after all there were only 
two provinces in the whole of Canada that 
even had Camp Associations. In the thirty- 
eight years that have elapsed since that 
time, we have made that dream come true. 
Today, the Canadian Camping Association 
speaks with one voice for all of us. Today 
it represents all of Canada. But there is 
still much to be done. I don't know whether 
it is because of our modesty, but I have 
felt in years gone by that the Federal 
Government had not begun to appreciate the 
great contribution which organized camping 
was making to some 500,000 of our Canadian 
youth. 

I hope there is no one who feels that 
the best camping days are over. It is quite 
true that organized camping today faces many 
counter attractions, but where, I ask you, 
can you find anything as good to take its 
place? Fifty years ago, President Elliot 
of Columbia University said, "In my esti¬ 
mation, the organized camp is the most sig¬ 
nificant contribution which the United 
States has made in the field of education." 
Coming from an outstanding academic, that 
was surely some tribute. Camping is unique 
in that it is a painless form of education. 
...camping is child centred. What is more, 
our campers are self-propelling, self-de¬ 
velopers, if you please, because much of 
what they do during the day is an outgrowth 
of their own interests and desires, and not 
someone else's. In camp they do their own 
thing, so long as it is not anti-social. To 
many a new camper, camp has become a place 
where for the first time in his life he be¬ 
comes a full-fledged citizen in his own 
right. Camps are an ideal place to help 
younsters to realize "a sense of oneness", 

'a feeling of solidarity" with all mankind.. 
..with Mother Earth...and all living crea¬ 
tures. Life has become so fragmented that 
much of the world is being torn asunder. We 
have yet to learn our interdependence, and 
that the interests of all are mutually in¬ 
clusive and not mutually exclusive as most 


people suppose. 

I am one of those who believe that 
the Golden Age of Camping still lies 
ahead. I believe the camp of the future 
can be just a dynamic and just as meaning¬ 
ful as we have the wisdom and the will to 
make it. Sure, we have problems, but so 
long as we bring happiness to children, 
so long as we work with them and not for 
them, so long as we have our hearts in 
the right place and want to share our 
lives in helping them to live life at its 
best, we need have no fear, but fear 
itself. 


Mr. Charles Plewman passed along 
these thoughts on the occasion of 
being made an Hounourary Member of 
the Canadian Camping Association. 
Mr. Plewman founded Kilcoo Camp. 

He is 87. 



ALL CAMPERS' CLOTHING AND 
BELONGINGS 

should be marked for easy identification- 
losses are costly. 

CAMP LINEN AND EQUIPMENT, TOO, 
should be marked to avoid confusion 
and loss. 

NAMES OR NUMBERS CAN BE 
SUPPLIED. 

Order CASH'S NAME TAPES from 
department stores and other dealers — 
or direct from 

CASH'S 

CANADA LABELS LIMITED 

BOX 70, STATION S 
MONTREAL, QUEBEC 

PRINTED NAME PRICES 

6 doz. $3.20 9 doz. $3.65 

12doz. $4.50 24 doz. $5.50 

No C.O.D.s. Please mail cheque or 
money order. 

Please include appropriate 
Provincial Sales Tax. 




News and Views 


(cont. from page 2) 

members of the N.L.C.A. are now being 
asked to sit on the Boards of a large num¬ 
ber of provincial organizations and com¬ 
mittees which relate to the camping field. 
In other words, children’s camping is 
gaining a great deal of recognition in 
this Province. 


DEADLINE ... March 15 !!1 

The deadline for submission of designs 
for a new and different National Logo 
for the Canadian Camping Association is 
March 15• (Designs should be forwarded 
to the C.C.A. office.) Anyone involved 
with an accredited C.C.A. camp is eligi¬ 
ble (camper, staff member, Director ... 
past of present) is eligible, with the 
exception of anyone who makes his/her 
living in the commercial art or design 
field. The winner will be presented with 
a $ 50.00 cheque, at the Annual Meeting of 
the Association being held in Squamish, 
British Columbia. As a added incentive, 
transportation will be paid to and from 
Squamish for the winning artist. 


TASK FORCE 

The Task Force that has been studying 
the future direction for C.C.A. is ap¬ 
proaching the end of its current deli¬ 
berations and meetings. Very productive 
consultations have been held with every 
Provincial Association and Chairman John 
Latimer now reports that the views, com¬ 
ments, suggestions and’recommendations 
which have been collected from across the 
country are now being tabulated, organi¬ 
zed, analyzed and studied so that by the 
end of March a complete report will be 
ready. This report will be submitted to 
the membership at the Annual Meeting in 
B.C. John reports that he is extremely 
encouraged with the positive feed-back 
which he has received, especially from 
many Provincial Executives who have indi¬ 
cated that the meetings with members of 
the Task Force have been very helpful 
and beneficial to their own Associations, 
for the questioning and analyzing had tre¬ 
mendous relevance to them, as well as to 
the Canadian camping scene._10 


PUBLICATIONS 

One of the highlights which developed 
during the recent C.C. A. Board Meeting 
in Sault Ste. Marie was the discussion 
of plans to revitalize the Publications 
Committee. Punch Jackson of Winnipeg 
is now in the process of establishing a 
service for Camp Directors and Staff in 
which the latest in camping books can be 
purchased through C.C.A. In addition, 
Sharon Brown, who recently moved from 
British Columbia to Ontario is industri¬ 
ously working on a complete bibliography 
of all books, catalogues, papers, maga¬ 
zines etc. which would be of any interest 
to anyone in the camping and related 
fields. This document should be ready 
about mid-April. Incidently, the five 
most popular books available through the 


C.C.A. last year were: 

Camp Counsellor's Handbook .$4.95 

by Blackstock and Latimer 

Acclimatization .5»25 

by Steve Van Matre 

Acclimatizing .5.95 

by Steve Van Matre 

The Camp Counsellor's Book .1.95 

Edited by Northway and Lowes 

Woodcraft and Camping .1.75 

by Nessmuk 


These books may be ordered PrePaid 
from C.C.A. Publications Suite 205 
102 Eglinton Avenue East 
Toronto, Ontario M4R 1E1 

or write for a list of additional titles. 


'WEATHER FORCES POSTPONEMENT 

As a direct result of the weather in 
Buffalo, the Mid-American Regional Con¬ 
vention of the American Camping Associa¬ 
tion scheduled for February 15-18, will 
not be held until March 29 to April 1. 

For more information contact Mr. George 
Walper, Convention Chairman at the Buffalo 
Statler-Hilton Hotel. 








C.R.C.A. Canoe Instructors Schools 1977 


A Summary of Points j 

(cont* from page 4 ) 

talking to your counsellors in the fol¬ 
lowing Pre-Camp. 

- One point of public relations is 
that everything a camper and staff 
member does while outside our own 
camps reflects on the kind of camp 
we operate* Therefore, time should 
be taken the first day of camp to 
impress everybody with this respon¬ 
sibility • 

In summary, all of the best gimmicks in 
promotion and public relations are useless 
if the campers themselves do not have a 
good time and return home in a positive, 
excited frame of mind. If one has to con¬ 
stantly struggle to find new campers be¬ 
cause there are few returnees, the Camp 
Director is then not permitted to concen¬ 
trate on the real business of leading his 
staff and campers, and developing the camp 
into one which would have a top-notch, 
positive, exciting reputation. The one 
word in public relations which is impor¬ 
tant is "PERSONAL”. 

from a talk given to the 
Ontario Camping Association 
by Mr. John Latimer. Mr. 
Latimer is the Director of 
Kilcoo Camp. 


CRAFT IDEA 

Nature dyes can be made from many na¬ 
tural materials. Beets make a reddish 
purple, blackberries make a blue dye... 
remove the seeds. Spinach makes a yellow 
green, dandelion roots give a bright 
light purple. Tea, depending on the 
strength, will make a pale ecru to a dark 
reddish brown colour. Coffee yields 
shades of brown, again depending on the 
strength. Goldenrod flowers will give a 
dull yellow; sumac berries a dark 
brownish red. Natural dyes can be used 
on eggs, cotton cloth, yarn or other ma¬ 
terials. 


Atlantic School ' August 19 - 28 

Place: Camp Kadimah, Nova Scotia 

School Manager: Harold Brown 
P.0. Box 7 

New Glasgow, Nova Scotia 

French School June 20-30 

Place: University of Ottawa Camp near 

Gracefield, Quebec 

School Manager: Jacques Grenier, c/o 

Physical Education Dept. 
University of Ottawa 

Central School August 22 - 31 

Place: Camp Kandalore, near Minden, Ont. 

School Manager: Jack MacGregor 

Camp Kandalore, R.R.# 1 
Minden, Ont. KOM 2K0 

Ontario School June 11 - 20 

Place: Camp White Pine, near Haliburton, 
Ontario 

School Manager: Jack MacGregor 

Camp Kandalore, R.R. # 1 
Minden, Ontario KOM 2K0 

ffcnitoba School June 4-13 

Place: White Shell, in the Kenora area 

School Manager: Punch Jackson 
Box 128 

lie des Chenes, Manitoba 
ROA 0T0 

Alberta School June 14 - 23 

Place: Camp Chief Hector, Seebe, Alberta 

School Jfenager: Gary Luthy 

Yamnuska Centre 
Seebe, Alta. TOL 1K0 

For further information and application 
forms, write either to the Manager at the 
school of your choice, or to: 

Mr. Clifford labbett. Administrator 
Canadian Recreational Canoeing Association 
3 Pine Forest Road 
Toronto, Ontario M4N 3^6 


BOULDERWOOD CAMP at Baysville, Ontario is available for lease - the summer of 1977. 
Contact: Mr. Ken Thomas, Sheridan Realty, Ltd., R.R. # 1 Markham, Ont. (4l6) 294-3510 


11 





WOODSMANSHIP SCHOOLS 


CIVILIZATION 


If Government funds are available to be 
used by the C.C.A. for certain projects in 
1977, we can look forward to three Woods- 
manship Instructors Schools this year. 

In Ontario , please write to Mr. Jack 
MacGregor, c/o Carjip Kandalore, R.R. # 1, 

Minden, Ontario KOM 2K0, for dates and 
details* 

In addition, some of the Provincial 
Associations are organizing their own 
schools with the assistance of the C.C.A* 

In the East * please write: 

Mr. George Matthews 

Nova Scotia Camping Association 

Box 696 

Halifax, Nova Scotia 

In the West , 

Mr. John Boutin 

Saskatchewan Camping Association 
Box 823 

Regina, Saskatchewan S4P 3B1 

WOODLAND CENTERPIECES add much to an 
outdoor meal and give campers an oppor¬ 
tunity to try their hands at decorating. 

A raw potato, cut in half, makes an ideal 
stand for dried pods and weeds. A good 
sized lump of clay or fairly dried mud 
from the creek will hold ferns, summer 
flowers and berries. Tin cans, covered 
with clay and set with small coloured 
pebbles, make good containers for leaves 
and berries from the woods. 


"At this point we must reveal ourselves 
in our true colours. We hold a number of 
beliefs that have been repudiated by the 
liveliest intellects of our time,. 

- We believe that order is better 

than chaos 

- Creation is better than destruction 

- We prefer gentleness to violence, 

forgiveness to vendetta. 

On the whole we think that knowledge 
is preferable to ignorance, and we are 
sure that human sympathy is sometimes more 
valuable than ideology. We believe that 
inspite of the recent triumphs of science, 
man has not changed much in the last 2,000 
years and, in consequence, we must still 
try to learn from history. 

We also hold one or two beliefs that 
are more difficult to put shortly. For 
example, we believe in courtesy, the 
ritual by which we avoid hurting other 
people's feelings by satisfying our own 
egos, and we think we are part of a great 
whole which, for convenience, we call 
Nature. All living things are our bro¬ 
thers and sisters. 

Above all we believe in the God-given 
genius of certain individuals and value 
a society that makes their existence pos¬ 
sible." 

The preceeding is taken from Kenneth 

Clark's writings on "Civilization". 



6ll£-800 NSSI 


1ST d^W OTUTequo ‘oquouoj, 
# *3 anueAy uo%uxjS^ ZOI 
uoxqBToossy Suxdui^Q ubtpbubq 



