


OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OFFICIELLE 

THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION (.'ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU CANADA 




- S. . f $$$< 




• - - * * % i, . * r v, 






ft-MT" 




Winter Edition, 1973, edition d'hiver 




























TREMBLAY CANOES 



The finest canoes made in Canada today — correctly designed by craftsmen with 60 years' experience for men who 
really know canoes - stable, seaworthy, safe, capable of riding the roughest water or fast water. 

The unsinkable cedar canoes with no space taken up by floatation tanks. 

Tremblay canoes have for the past 8 years been covered with "Verolite", a plastic-coated canvas which ELIMINATES 
ALL EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE. Lighter than painted canvas and far more durable and scuff resistant - not 
affected by heat or cold. 

After seven years' use by more than 60 Boys' and Girls' camps and by various police units and several governmental 
departments in Ontario and Quebec, also by Paper Mills and Lumbering Companies in their spring drives and by 
Mining and Oil Development Companies and by thousands of canoeists comprising the general public, we have yet to 
have a complaint from any user who was not happy with the performance of Verolite. 

In the construction of Tremblay Canoes only No. 1 Eastern Canada Cedar is used and only solid Brass nails and Brass 
screws are used. The deck pieces, thwarts and seats are of white Birch. Seats may be either slat style or rawhide laced. 
The interior is finished with Urethane Lacquer to provide years of protection. 

For the fisherman, hunter or camp operator, Tremblay offers a complete range of pointed, V-Stern, or flat-wide stern 
canoes in 38 sizes and models. 

Verolite is now available in red, green or orange. Green and orange are colour fast. Red not guaranteed colour fast. 
Carrying yokes can be built in or provided separately. These are extra. 

Verolite covered canoes do not require periodic painting, thus they do not take on added weight with the passing years. 

A Cedar canoe is always preferred by the experienced knowledgeable canoeist. They ride right and handle right. 
For complete information write to the Canadian Sales Representatives, see below. 


Made by 

TREMBLAY CANOES LIMITED 

40 ST. PAUL ST., ST. FELICIEN, QUE. 

EXCLUSIVE SALES REPRESENTATIVES FOR CANADA 

CAMERON & TYRELL LTD. 

14 WANDA RD., TORONTO 165, ONT. Phone 535-1768 


TABLE OF CONTENTS - SOMMAIRE 


Vol. 25 No. 2 

Winter Edition 1973 edition d'hiver 

A MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT. 2 

A CASE FOR THE "CANADIAN STROKE". 4 

A STAFF CONTRACT-DO YOU HAVE ONE?. 8 

DO IT NOW! . 9 

DRAMA GAMES FOR LISTENING & MOVING . 10 

TWO APPROACHES TO CAMP STAFF MANUALS . 12 

A COUNSELLOR'S MANUAL . 13 

IN MEMORIAM-A TRIBUTE TO MRS. TEDDY HOYLE . 14 

ASINGING GRACE . 14 

YAWACACOMES HOME . 15 

TIPS. 16 

A COUNSELLOR WRITES . 16 

A CAMPER SAYS . 17 

CAMPING FOR THE UNMARRIED MOTHER . 18 

OUTDOOR COOKERY . 19 

HAVE YOU HEARD? DO YOU KNOW? . 20 

Cover Couverture 

Courtesy of Paul Rushton 
Camp Trailfinder 


CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 

Suite 203, 102 Eglinton Ave. East 
Toronto 315, Ontario, Canada 
(416) 486-8630 

Honorary President Pr6sidente honoraire 

Miss Mary S. Edgar 

President President 

Mr. John Latimer, 102 Eglinton Ave. E., 
Suite 203, Toronto 315, Ont. 

Regional Vice-Pr6sidents 

Vice-Presidents r6gionaux 

Mr. John Hasell, 1616 W. 7th Ave. 
Vancouver, B.C. 

Mrs. Eileen Mayotte, 87 Coldwell Rd., 
Regina, Sask. 

Mr. Jack Pearse, 274 Shakespeare Dr., 
Waterloo, Ont. 

Mr. Robert Lazanik, 5165 Sherbrooke St. W. 
Suite 316, Montreal 260, Que. 

Mr. Robert Cameron, Recreation & Parks 
Dept., City Hall, Main St., Moncton, N.B. 
Secretary Secr6taire 

Mr. Jay Haddad, 1685 Somme Ave., 
Windsor, Ont. 

Treasurer Tr6sorier 

Mr. Bryan Graham, McDonald Currie & Co., 
120 Adelaide St. W., Toronto, Ont. 

Past President L'ex-pr6sident 

The Rev. David Hartry, 

Diocese of Nassau of the Bahamas 
P.O. Box N107, Nassau, N.P., Bahamas 
Committee Chairmen Pr6sidents des comit6s 
Canadian Camping Magazine 
Mr. Bill Henderson, 1162 Bay Street 
Toronto 181, Ont. 

National Camping Day 
Mr. Doug Dent, 145 Lincoln Road, 
Waterloo, Ont. 

Standards 

Mr. Hank Roessingh, 540 — 49 Ave. S.W., 
Calgary 6, Alta. 

Fund Raising 

Mr. Grant McKeen, 1309 McLean Drive, 
Vancouver 6, B.C. 

Canoe Schools 
Mr. Claude Cousineau, 

School of Physical Education & Recreation, 
University of Ottawa, Ottawa K1N 6N5, Ont. 
Constitutional Task Force 
Mr. Stanley Wild, 740 Avenue Road, 
Toronto 7, Ont. 

Publications 
Mr. Brian Blackstock, 

Mazinaw Lake Outdoor Education Centre, 
Cloyne, Ont. 

Outdoor Education 
Mr. Robert Cameron, 

Recreation and Parks Dept., City Hall, 
Main St., Moncton, N.B. 

Editorial Committee Comit6 de redaction 
Bill Henderson (Chairman), Bob Attfield, 
Brian Blackstock, Jean Darrach, 
Eanswythe Flynn, Bruno Morawetz, 
Jocelyn Palm, Ann Prewitt, Paul Rushton, 
Kirk Wipper 

CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 

Published 4 times a year 
By The Canadian Camping Association 
Subscription rates: $3—1 year, $8—3 years 
(Distributed free to members) 

$1—a single copy 


Editor 6ditrice 

Miss Helen E. Stewart 
Apt. 510, 240 Markland Drive 
Etobicoke 652, Ontario 
(416) 621-3791 

Advertising Manager chef de la publicity 
Mr. Paul Rushton 


Provincial Offices Bureaux provinciaux 
B.C. Camping Association — 1309 McLean 
Drive, Vancouver 6, B.C. (Mr. Grant 
McKeen, Pres.) 

Alberta Camping Association — 2402 - 27 St. 
S.W. Calgary, Alta. T3E 2G3 (Miss Jan 
James, Pres.) 

Saskatchewan Camping Association — P.O. 
Box 823, Regina, Sask. (Mrs. Eileen 
Mayotte, Pres.) 

Manitoba Camping Association — 672 
Niagara St., Winnipeg, Man. R3N0W1 
(Mr. Arnold Cohen, Pres.) 

Ontario Camping Association— 102 Eglinton 
Ave. East, Suite 203, Toronto 315, Ont. 
(Mr. Ron Johnstone, Pres.) 

L'association des camps du Quebec, and 
Quebec Camping Association — 952 


Cherrier St., Montreal, Quebec, (Mr. 
Robert Lazanik, pres.) 

English section: 2233 Belgrave Ave., 
Montreal 261, Que. (Mr. Zave Ettinger, 
Pres.) 

Section franpaise:952 rue Cherrier, Mont¬ 
real, Que. (Rev. Pere Rosaire Corbin, 
pres.) 

Nova Scotia Camping Association — P.O. 
Box 1622, Halifax, N.S. (Rev. David 
Boston, Pres.) 

New Brunswick Camping Association — 
Recreation & Parks Dept., City Hall, 
Main St., Moncton, N.B. (Mr. Tim 
Easley, Pres.) 

Newfoundland 8* Labrador Camping Associ¬ 
ation — P.O. Box 4009, St. John's, Nfld. 
(Mr. Frank Jennings, Pres.) 



















A Message from the President 


It seems to me that one of the biggest challenges facing 
our Association at this time is a concern as to how we can 
make the general public more aware of the advantages of a 
positive camping experience for children. Newspaper reports 
often present either a pessimistic outlook on camps (and 
their future) or a stupid, “whimsical” pre-historic concept. 
Word of mouth is,of course, the most positive way in which 
to “sell” camps but we, as Camp Directors, must do our 
utmost to keep in touch . . . keep in touch with our local 
media people as well as children and parents. And, above 
all, we must continue to upgrade our own standards and 
professional training. This certainly is our obligation for 
survival. 

Exciting things are happening in the field of camping 
right across Canada. The National Workshop being held at 
Geneva Park, February 1-4, will bring together over 100 
directors, senior personnel and committee members. The 
response to the Workshop, which will delve into many of 
the real “challenges”, has been tremendous. If only we had 
several more thousands of dollars to involve many more 
camping people! Also running concurrently with the Work¬ 
shop will be a meeting of Provincial members involved in 
Standards. 

In November, the C.C.A. Executive met in Regina and 
perhaps some of the topics discussed would be of interest 
to our readers. 

• Many highlights of last year’s National Camping Day 
were presented. It was moved that a similar day be an¬ 
nounced for 1973 . . . namely July 18th. Chairman Doug 
Dent will be giving us more news on this. 

• A new Canoe Instructor’s Course has been tentatively 
added to the programme for 1973. Claude Cousineau reports 
that in addition to the English and French Schools in 
Ottawa and the Western School at Lake of the Woods, a 
new school will be held in the Maritimes. Bill Palmer has 
joined the Committee and will be helping to organize this 
Eastern School. Dates for all Schools will be announced 
shortly. 

• An Awards Committee has been established, under the 
Chairmanship of Bob Lazanik, for the purpose of recog¬ 
nizing those individuals who have strongly contributed to 
camping in Canada. 

• Additional copies of the Centenary Journey Log are now 
available through the Canadian Camping Association Office. 
A great deal of interest has been expressed in this Log . . . 
especially from canoeists in the United States. 

• The C.C.A. will be making an approach to the Federal 
Government for funds to assist in organizing and holding a 
National Workshop on Outdoor Education. Participants at 
this Workshop would be those actively involved in camping. 

• Brian Blackstock, Chairman of the newly-formed Publi¬ 
cations Committee, recently spent some time studying the 
very extensive Publications programme of the American 
Camping Association. A great deal of information was 
gained and his Committee now has several exciting ideas 
for 1973. 

• We are now on the threshhold of having a new workable 
Constitution. Several days were spent on the final revision... 
and this will soon be in the hands of each Provincial Execu¬ 


tive for ratification. Stan Wild has done an outstanding job 
in chairing this Committee. 

• Your President was elected to serve a Second Term . . . 
with a Vice-President (President-elect) to be chosen at the 
Annual Meeting in April. 

• The C.C.A. Executive approved in principle the concept 
of investigating the possibilities of holding an International 
Camping Workshop in Ottawa in 1975. This would not only 
involve directors from Canada and the United States but 
invitations would also be sent to delegates from other 
Camping Associations throughout the world. It could be an 
exciting, monumental venture! 

And so we continue to move! The Camping movement is 
NOT “in trouble” and it will continue to grow and influence 
thousands of youngsters if we all share the enthusiasm and 
devotion for better Camping all across Canada. 


Message du President 

Le plus grand defi, me semble-t-il, auquel fait face pre- 
sentement notre Association, c’est de trouver comment 
rendre le public en gene'ral plus conscient des avantages 
qu’offre aux enfants une experience de vie valable dans un 
camp de vacances. Les articles de journeaux tiennent sou- 
vent des propos pessimistes sur les camps de vacances, sur 
leur avenir, ou encore les decrivent d’une fa^on demodee, 
fantaisiste et meme parfois stupide. Renseigner les gens de 
vive voix est bien sur le meilleur moyen de “vendre” les 
camps. Cependant, comme directeurs de camps, nous devons 
faire l’impossible pour etre en contact avec les responsables 
des media d’information de notre localite aussi bien qu’avec 
les enfants et les parents. Avant tout nous devons continuer 
d’ameliorer nos propres normes et notre formation pro- 
fessionnelle. Ce sont la des moyens indispensablcs si nous 
voulons survivre. 

A travers le pays, il se passe des choses tres inte'ressantes 
pour les responsables et les cadres des camps de vacances. 
Les 1,2, 3, 4 fevrier prochain se tiendra a Geneva Park un 
Seminar a 1’echelon national qui reunira plus de 100 per- 
sonnes: Directeurs de camps, cadres et membres de comites 
nationaux. La participation a ce Seminar, qui scrutera les 
vrais defis auxquels font face les camps aujourd’hui, s’an- 
nonce tres forte. Si seulement nous disposions de quelques 
milliers de dollars de plus, nous pourrions etendre a beau- 
coup plus de gens interesse's aux camps Faeces a ce Seminar. 
Les responsables des Normes dans chaque province profite- 
ront de ce seminar pour se reunir officiellement. 

En novembre, l’executif de 1’Association des Camps du 
Canada s’est reuni a Regina. Voici quelques points discute's 
a cette occasion qui pourraient interesser nos lecteurs. 

• Plusieurs faits saillants de la “Journee Nationale des 
Camps” de Fan dernier furent exposes et il fut decide que 
cette experience serait renouvelee en 1973. Cette journee 
se tiendra le 18 juillet cette anne'e. M. Doug Dent, president 
du comite nous tiendra au courant. 

• L’on propose d’ajouter un nouveau cours d’instructeur 
en canotage au programme de l’Ecole de Canotage pour 


2 


1973. Claude Cousineau rapporte qu’en plus des stages 
d’instructeur d’Ottawa (anglais et fran^ais), et de celui de 
Lake of the Woods dans l’Ouest, il y aura en nouveau cours 
cette annee dansles Maritimes. Bill Palmer, nouveau membre 
du comite, donnera un coup de main dans Torganisation de 
ce nouveau stage dans l’Est. Les dates de chacun des cours 
secont annoncees bientot. 

• L’A.C.C. a mis sur pied un “Comite devaluation du 
merite” (Awards Committee) dont le president est Bob 
Lazanik. Le but de ce comite est d’honorer les personnes 
qui ont contribue de fa 9 on significative aux loisirs oiganise's 
de Plein Air au Canada. 

• Des copies additionnelles du “Journal du Voyage du 
Centenaire” (Centenary Journey Log) sont maintenant dis- 
ponibles au bureau national de l’Association. Ce “Journal” 
a suscite beaucoup d’interet surtout chez les canotiers 
americains. 

• L’A.C.C. va s’efforcer d’obtenirdu Gouvernement Fede¬ 
ral les octrois necessaires pour organiser un Seminar a 
l’echelon national dont le theme serait PEDAGOGIE et 
PLEIN AIR (Outdoor Education). Pourraient participer a 
ce Seminar ceux qui travaillent activement dans les camps. 

• Brian Blackstock, president du Comite des Publications, 
recemment mis sur pied, a etudie le vaste programme de 
publications de l’American Camping Association. Fort de 
cette etude, son comite elabore maintenant des projets tres 
interessants pour 1973. 

• Nous sommes sur le point d’avoir une Constitution nou- 
velle et pratique. La revision finale du texte a pris plusieurs 
jours de travail. Ce texte revise sera bientot envoye aux 
executifs des provinces pour approbation. Stan Wild a fait 
un travail extraordinaire comme president de ce comite. 

• Votre president a ete elu pour un deuxieme mandat. Un 
vice-president (president-elu) sera choisi a l’assemble'e an- 
nuelle d’avril prochain. 

• L’Executif de l’A.C.C. a approuve en principe l’idee 
suivants: Etudier la possibility de tenir a Ottawa en 1975 un 
Seminar a l’echelon international sur les Camps de Vacances. 
Y seraient invites non seulement les Directeurs de camps du 
Canada et des Etats-Unis, mais aussi des delegues disso¬ 
ciations de Centres de Plein Air des autres pays a travers le 
monde. Ce pourrait etre un projet excitant et de belle 
envergure. 

Ainsi nous continuons de progresser. Les Centres de 
Plein Air “NE SONT PAS EN DIFFICULTES” et ils vont 
continuer de se developper et d’exercer une influence sur 
des milliers de jeunes si nous partageons le meme enthou- 
siasme et continuons a nous devouer pour ameliorer nos 
camps a travers le Canada. 




If you enjoy working with 
your hands (so many people 
do), then you will appreciate 
the contents of our new 1973 

CRAFT 

CATALOGUE 

and 

IDEA BOOK 


Its 132 pages are full of Craft 
ideas, basic instructions and 
materials you can use during 
your creative leisure hours. 
Many craftworkers consider it 
a reference book on contempor¬ 
ary Arts 'n Crafts. So # if you 
enjoy working with your hands 
and would like a compliment¬ 
ary copy, simply send us your 
name and address. 



284-286 KING ST. WEST, 
TORONTO 2B, CANADA 



3 





















































































Photo Courtesy Camp Trailfinder 



A Case for the “Canadian Stroke” / Le Cas du “Coup Canadien” 


by Claude Cousineau 

C.C.A. Canoeing School, Ottawa, 1972 


traduit par: Caroline Boucher 
Susanne St-Pierre 


Anyone who has been a sternsman in a canoe and been 
able to keep the craft on a straight course, without con¬ 
tinually switching sides, has realized that, at the end of 
each propulsive stroke, a “course correction” is needed. 

The “goon” stroke 

The novice or self-taught canoeist probably 
achieved this manoeuvre by doing what is re¬ 
ferred to as the “goon” stroke. He pushed the 
water behind him to propel his canoe forward, 
but at the end of this movement, he rotated his 
paddle by bending his hands upward and away 
from the side of the canoe. That placed the 
blade of the paddle in a rudder position and 
allowed the canoeist to steer the canoe back to 
a desired direction with a push-away action. 

This stroke is rather inefficient as it makes 
it hard to follow the rhythm of the bowman and middle 
man. The recovery is awkward as it can only be achieved 
out of the water and therefore requires a “lift” of the hand 
which is holding the neck of the paddle; the blade is also 
recovered in a manner which offers the most air resistance. 


Quiconque a eu foccasion d’avironner a la poupe d’un 
canot, et, qui a ete capable de garder celui-ce dans une 
trajectoire rectiligne, sans changer de cote continuellement, 
s’est aper$u qu’une correction de trajectoire devenait 
necessaire apres chaque coup propulsif. 

Le coup du “touriste” 

L’apprenti-canotier ou l’autodidacte a 
probablement reussi cette manoeuvre en em- 
ployant ce qu’on appelle le coup du “touriste”. 
A l’aide de son aviron, il tire Peau jusque 
derriere lui, propulsant ainsi le canot vers 
1’avant, et il termine le mouvementen tournant 
son aviron par un flechissement des mains vers 
le haut et en les eloignant du cote du canot. 
Ceci place la pale de l’aviron en position de 
gouvernail et permet a favironneur de ramener 
le canot dans la trajectoire desiree, par un 
mouvement de rejet a la poupe. 

Ce coup d’aviron est peu efficace car il rend difficile le 
maintien du rythme donne par Hiomme de proue. Le re- 
couvrement ou retour en position initiale est aussi peu 
commode, pouvant etre execute seulement hors de l’eau. 
Ce recouvrement ou retour-ci demande de lever conside- 
rablement les bras pour sortir l’aviron de l’eau, et la pale 
offre de cette fa$on une grande resistance a fair. 





i'll Hill 




The “J” stroke 

The canoeist who has read the “classics” on 
canoeing or who has had the opportunity (or 
misfortune) to take canoeing lessons, is then 
familiar with the popular “J” stroke. In con¬ 
trast to the “goon” stroke, at the end of the 
propulsive phase, the hands are turned down¬ 
wards and towards the canoe until the blade is 
in a rudder position; then again the desired 
correction is applied. This stroke forces the 
paddler to bring both hands over and sometimes 
outside the gunwale on the side he is paddling. 

The recovery is again rather difficult. It also takes longer to 
accomplish this manoeuvre in the stern than the time re¬ 
quired by the other paddlers in the canoe to accomplish 
their stroke. The sternsman is then forced to shorten the 
propulsive phase of his stroke in order to have time to do 
the “J”, or else to accomplish his “J” every second or third 
stroke, which makes the canoe travel in a zigzag manner. 

The “J” stroke should only be considered as a teaching 
aid in the same way that the snowplow turn is used in 
skiing. It is easy to learn and gives early self-confidence. But 
it should lead to a more refined and efficient stroke. Some 
experts even say we should by-pass the “J” stroke in the 
teaching sequence. 


Le coup en “J” 

Le canotier qui a lu les classiques du cano- 
tage ou qui a eu la chance (ou la malchance) de 
prendre des cours de canotage, est probablement 
familier avec le populaire coup en “J”. Con- 
trairement au coup du “touriste”, a la fin de la 
phase propulsive, les mains sont flechies vers le 
bas et vers le canot jusqu’a ce que la pale soit 
en position de gouvernail. Cette correction per¬ 
met ainsi de maintenir la trajectoire desiree. 
Cependant ce coup force favironneur a placer 
ses deux mains au-dessus et quelques fois a 
l’exterieur du plat-bord du cote ou il avironne, 
occasionnant ainsi une fatigue inutile. Ici encore, le retour 
en position initiale est quelque peu difficile. Le temps 
requis pour effectuer cette manoeuvre est encore trop long 
comparativement au temps necessaire aux autres avironneurs 
pour effectuer leur coup d’aviron. L’homme de poupe est 
alors force de racourcir la phase propulsive de son coup 
pour avoir le temps de faire le “J”, ou encore d’effectuer 
son “J” a tous les deux ou trois coups, ce qui fait que le 
canot avance en zigzagant. 

Le coup en “J” devrait etre cu uniquement comme aide 
pedagogique tout comme le virage chasse-neige l’est en ski. 
Il est facile a apprendre et permet d’acquerir rapidement 
une certain confiance en soi, mais il devrait conduire a un 
coup d’aviron plus efficace et plus raffine. 


r 





j 


4 










The “Indian” stroke 

This stroke involves keeping the blade of the 
paddle in the water throughout the entire 
stroke; the recovery is totally underwater. The 
paddle is held more vertically and the shaft 
does not come in contact with the gunwale. 

Some paddlers do a complete rotation of the 
paddle in their hands therefore alternating the 
face of the blade each time. Others prefer to 
flip the blade underwater into its original 
position at the end of each stroke. The steering 
is done at the end of each stroke. 

The advantage of this stroke is its neatness. There is no 
splashing because of the underwater recovery, and no noise 
because of the constant effort to avoid touching the gun¬ 
wale. In some camps the contact of the paddle with the 
gunwale is considered a very bad practice. The object is not 
a quiet and efficient stroke but rather to protect the canoe 
from wear and tear. 

The origin of the term “Indian” stroke is not clear. 
Some writers describe the Indians using this stroke to sneak 
up behind their enemies or to stalk prey. It is very doubt¬ 
ful that the Indians used it for long distances as it requires 
more energy to use the shoulder muscles as a fulcrum rather 
than the gunwale of the canoe. 

Nevertheless, the “Indian” stroke (for a lack of a better 
term) has its place in the canoeing programme as an 
additional skill for the versatile canoeist. 


Le coup “Indien” 

Ce coup d’aviron consiste a garder la pale de 
Faviron dans l’eau pendant toute la manoeuvre; 
le retour se fait totalement sous Feau. L’aviron 
est tenu dans une position beaucoup plus verti¬ 
cal et le manche ne touche pas au plat-bord. 
Certains canotiers font une rotation complete 
de Faviron dans leurs mains alternant done a 
chaque coup la face propulsive de la pale. 
D’autres preferent retourner, sous Feau, la pale 
a sa position originale apres avoir effectuer la 
correction de trajectoire, a la fin de chaque 
coup. 

Ce qui rend ce coup interessant e’est qu’il s’execute 
d’une fa^on propre et silencieuse. II n’y a pas d’eclaboussure 
a cause du recouvrement sous Feau et pas de bruit a cause 
de Feffort soutenu pour eviter de toucher le plat-bord. 
Dans certains camps, le contact de Faviron avec les plats- 
bords est vu d’un mauvais oeil: la raison n’en est pas d’avoir 
un coup efficace ou silencieux, mais plus tot de proteger le 
canot de toute deterioration. 

L’origine de Fappellation “coup Indien” n’est pas tres 
clair; certains ecrivains pretendent que les Indiens utilisaient 
ce coup d’aviron pour s’approcher de leurs ennemis ou pour 
traquer leur proie. Mais il est peu probable que les Indiens 
Futilisaient pour parcourir de longues distances, car ce coup 
occasionne une grande depense d’energie; les muscles de 
Fepaule font le travail ordinairement accompli par les 
plats-bords. 

Neammoins, le coup “Indien” (faute d’une meillure 
terminologie) a sa place dans un programme de canotage 
comme habilete additionnelle pour un canotier versatile. 







The “pitch” stroke 

Even among experts the “pitch” stroke is 
not well known. In his books The New Way of 
the Wilderness (1), and North American Canoe 
Country (2), Calvin Rustrum attempts to 
describe it. During the propulsive phase, the 
blade is gradually rotated in the same direction 
as in the “J” stroke. It is claimed to correct the 
course of the canoe at the same time as it pro¬ 
pels the craft and therefore avoids the zigzag 
effect of the “J” stroke. The stroke is also 
performed without using the gunwale. 

For what is gained in the straighter direction, much is 
lost in energy output due to bringing both hands above the 
gunwale and using the shoulder muscle as a fulcrum. Also 
the recovery offers much resistance to the air as the blade is 
brought forward perpendicular to the surface of the water. 
From a teaching point of view, this stroke is hard to teach 
and rather difficult to master. But again a good canoeist 
should include it in his repertoire. 



Le coup “pitch” ou (par incidence), est un 
coup d’aviron peu connu. Calvin Rustrum dans 
ses livres, The New Way of the Wilderness , et 
North American Canoe Country (Macmillan), a 
tente de decrire ce coup. Dans la phase pro¬ 
pulsive, on effectue une rotation graduelle de 
la pale dans la meme direction que pour le coup 
en “J”. On pretend qu’il corrige la trajectoire 
du canot tout en le propulsant vers l’avant, 
sans que le canot zigzague comme lorsqu’on 
emploie le coup en “J”. Le desavantage princi¬ 
pal de ce coup est que la surface propulsive de 
Faviron diminue au fur et a mesure que Faviron progresse 
dans Feau. Ici encore, ce coup s’execute sans toucher aux 
plats-bords du canot. 

Toutefois pour ce qu’il gagne en direction rectiligne, ce 
mouvement requiert plus d’energie, car en n’appuyant le 
manche de Faviron sur le plat-bord et en sortant les deux 
mains presqu’a l’exterieur du canot, la musculature des 
epaules est appelec a travailler davantage. Le retour en 
position initiale offre beaucoup de resistance a Fair, car il 
se fait en ramenant la pale de Faviron perpendiculairement 
a la surface de Feau. Du point de vue pedagogique, ce coup 
est tres difficile a enseigner et meme a maitriser. Un bon 
canotier devrait tout de meme l’inclure dans son repertoire. 


Photo Courtesy Taylor Statten Camps 


Le coup “pitch 

-N 



“* Xs A| 1111 


5 











The “Canadian” stroke 

The more experienced canoeist is one who 
can sing any tune without having to change the 
rhythm of his stroke. The nonchalant but 
effective style known as the Canadian stroke is 
a somewhat modified “J” stroke. 

The paddle is not rotated as much at the end 
of each stroke as in the conventional “J”. The 
correction is produced by a quick subtle curl 
of the wrist at the end of each stroke; the pres¬ 
sure is gradually released through the first phase 
of the partly underwater recovery. It results in 
a much more “rounded” stroke accompanied by a splash¬ 
less and elegant recovery as a follow through. Interestingly 
enough, this refined “J” stroke has been defined by 
different American authors as the “Canadian Stroke”. 

In his book Canoe Camping (3), C.W. Handle, when de¬ 
scribing wilderness paddling techniques, identifies the 
“Canadian stroke” as one of the most efficient: 

The best stern stroke to use, known as the Canadian 
stroke, is difficult to explain. As this stroke reaches 
the hip, it is allowed to pass about a foot, then the 
paddle is twisted by the top hand until the outside 
edge is forward and slightly downward under the 
water. The paddle is brought back under water with 
an upward pressure of the blade, thus bringing the 
point of the canoe back in line without any loss of 
forward motion. This is better, more efficient and 
more restful. The blade is flipped out of the water 
about halfway back to start a new stroke. The Cana¬ 
dian stroke is the finest and most efficient of all 
stern strokes and can be learned easily with a little 
practice. 

In Pole, Paddle and Portage (4), Bill Riviere offers this 
description: 

Sometimes mistaken for the “J” stroke, the Canadian 
stroke affects the canoe's behavior in much the same 
way. Once acquired, however, the Canadian stroke is 
the less tiring of the two. Following the stern paddler's 
backward sweep, the paddler feathers his blade out¬ 
wardly to execute a “J", brings it forward underwater, 
and withdraws it to a point opposite his hips. This is 
not an easy stroke to master but it is efficient in that 
it keeps the canoe on course without slowing its 
headway. The “J" stroke, on the other hand, slows 
it slightly. 

In Malo’s Complete Guide to Canoeing (5), the “Guide 
or Canadian Stroke” is described differently. Malo seems to 
combine the elements of the “pitch” stroke with those of 
the “Canadian” stroke: 

An effect similar to that of the “J” stroke can be 
achieved by passing the paddle blade through the 
water at a slight angle, like that of a boat propeller. 
The finish of the stroke, a quick outward flip of the 
paddle, using the gunwale as a fulcrum, gives con¬ 
siderable resistance to the upward recovery of the 
blade, and keeps the canoe in a straight course. As the 
blade makes its sweep on its slight angle, there is 
some loss in the forward thrust, as there is in the “J” 
stroke. 


Le coup “Canadien” 

Si toutefois vous observez un canotier ex- 
perimente (un canotier qui peut fredonner 
n’importe quel air sans pour autant changer le 
rythme de son coup d’aviron) vous verrez, 
qu’il a adopte un style quelque peu nonchalant 
mais efficace, qui est un taut soit peu une 
modification du coup en “J”. 

La rotation de l’aviron n’est pas aussi accen- 
tuee a la fin de chaque coup comme c’est le cas 
pour le coup en “J”. La correction desiree est 
le produit d’un recourbement subtil et rapide 
des poignets dans la derniere phase du coup; la 
pression est graduellement relachee au debut du retour a la 
position initiale lequel est partiellement effectue sous l’eau. 
lien resulte un coup d’aviron beaucoup plus arrondi, fini par 
un retour elegant et sans eclaboussure. II est interessant de 
noter que ce sont des auteurs Americains qui definissent ce 
raffinement du coup en “J”, comme le coup “Canadien”. 

Quand Handle, dans son livre Canoe Camping (Ronald 
Press), decrit les differents coups d’aviron. il qualifie le 
coup “Canadien” comme un des plus efficace: 

Le meilleur coup daviron a employer a la poupe, 
connu sous le nom de coup “Canadien”, est un coup 
difficile a expliquer. La phase propulsive va jusqua 
concurence d ’un pied passe la handle, la main tenant 
la poignee execute alors un leger mouvement de tor¬ 
sion, jusqua ce que le tranchant exterieur de la pale 
soit devant et legerement tourne vers le bas, sous 
Teau. On ramene Taviron sous Teau par une pression 
de bas en haut sur la pale, replagant ainsi la poupe du 
canot dans la direction rectiligne voulu, sans perte de 
vitesse dans le deplacement du canot. Ceci est plus 
efficace et plus reposant. La pale effleure la surface 
de Teau a la mi-chemin du re tour en position initiale 
et est en place pour un nouveau coup. Le coup 
“Canadien” est le plus efficace des coups a la poupe 
et il sapprend facilement avec un peu de pratique. 

Dans son livre Pole, Paddle and Portage (Van Nostrand 
Reinhold), Hauteur Bill Riviere en donne la description 
suivante: 

Quelquefois pris pour un coup en “J”, le coup 
“Canadien” agit a peu pres de la meme fagon sur le 
canot. Une fois acquis, cependant, le coup “Canadien” 
est le moins fatigant des deux. A la suite d'un coup 
propulsif a la poupe, Tavironneur ramene sous Teau 
Taviron jusqiTau niveau de la handle pour ensuite y 
decrire une portion de coup de balai renverse. Ce 
nest pas un coup facile a maitriser mais il est effi¬ 
cace, permettant au canot d’avancer en ligne droite 
sans perdre de vitesse. Le coup en “J”, par contre, 
ralentit un peu la vitesse acquit dans la phase pro¬ 
pulsive. 

Malo dans Malo’s Complete Guide to Canoeing (Colliers), 
decrit le coup “guide” ou coup “Canadien”, d’une fai^on 
quelque peu differente; il semble y combiner des elements 
du coup “pitch” (d’incidence) avec certains du coup “Cana¬ 
dien”: 

On peut avoir un effet semblable a celui du coup en 
“J” en glissant la pale de Taviron dans Teau avec un 
faible angle, tout comme Telice dun bateau. Onfinit 
le coup par une rapide rotation de Taviron vers l'ex¬ 
terieur, utilisant le plat-bord comme levier, ceci offre 
une resistance considerable au retour a la position 
initiale (vers le haut) de la pale, et garde le canot dans 
une trajectoire rectiligne tout comme le coup en “J”, 



6 






It would appear that we Canadians are often better 
described by others; in France, for example, our style of 
canoeing is referred to as “le canoe canadien”, while our 
neighbours from the south make a distinction between a 
“J” stroke and a “Canadian” stroke. 

Granted that the terminology is not too original, but it 
seems very descriptive and indigenuous. Should we perhaps 
go along with it? 

The “Canadian Stroke”, as described by the authors 
cited above, merits inclusion in any canoeing programme, 
mostly in those leading up to canoe tripping. It should not 
be imposed on the learners, but the many of us who use it 
must share the wonderful kinetic feeling of this relaxing, 
effortless and effective stroke. 

References: 

(1) Rutstrum, Calvin; The New Way of the Wilderness , 
The Macmillan Company, New York, 1958, p.33. 

(2) Rutstrum, Calvin; North American Canoe Country>, 
The Macmillan Company, New York, 1964, p.49. 

(3) Handle, Carle Walker; Canoe Camping , The Ronald 
Press Company, New York, 1953, p.69. 

(4) Riviere, Bill; Pole , Paddle and Portage , Van Nostrand 
Reinhold Company, Toronto, 1969, p.39. 

(5) Malo, John; Mala’s Complete Guide to Canoeing and 
Canoe Camping , Colliers Books, 1969, p.75. 


lorsque la pale arrive a un certain angle , il y a une 
certain perte dans la propulsion. 

II semble que nous, Canadiens, soyons mieux decrit par 
les etrangers; en France, par exemple, on parle du “canot 
canadien” quand on se refere a notre style de canotage, 
pendant que nos voisins du sud font une distinction entre le 
coup en “J” et le coup “Canadien”. 

II est vrai que cette terminologie n’est pas tres originate; 
mais elle est tout de meme descriptive, locale et elle 
s’adresse a nous. Devrait-on la suivre? 

Le coup “Canadien” tel que decrit par les auteurs ci-haut 
mentionne, merite certainement d’etre inclus dans nos pro¬ 
grammes de canotage, surtout quand ceux-ci sont orientes 
vers le canot-camping. II faudrait prendre garde de ne pas 
imposer cette fa^on d’avironner a tout le monde; cependant 
pour ceux d’entre nous qui 1’employons nous nous devons 
de partager cette merveilleuse sensation cinetique. Le coup 
“Canadien” est efficace, economique et elegant; il est sur¬ 
tout de chez-nous. 


Editor’s Note: Three excellent reference books on Canoeing by 
Ronald H. Perry can be purchased from G.R. Welch 
Co. Ltd., 222 Evans Avenue, Etobicoke, Ontario. 


The Phase I Phase II Phase III Phase IV 

Canadian Entry/entr6e Propulsion Correction Recovery/retour 


Stroke 

Le 

coup 

Canadien 

rear view 

slX, 

—* 

dt 

—> 

dj 

—* 

•r 


vue d'arriere 










7 











A Staff Contract... Do You Have One? 


Camp Directors are educators not only of campers but of staffs. The signing of a formal contract may help them to realize 
that they are assuming an important responsibility. 

Below is a sample contract form. It is a compilation of forms from a number of Camps. It is presented to assist Camp 
Directors in preparing their own forms. It should not be used verbatim but should be adjusted to suit your own Camp. 

Note: Those sections which are in brackets ( ) are quite optional but should be considered in developing your own form. 
After you have completed your contract, it would be prudent to consult your lawyer to determine its validity. 

I would like to thank the Directors of Camps Oconto, Pinecrest, Ponacka, Timberlane, Wahcahmie and Wapomeo for their 
assistance. 


Brian Blackstock 
Director , Camp Mazinaw 


Date:. 

Dear. 

We would like you to join the Kootenay Staff for the coming season, in the capacity of. 

The period of your employment will be from June.to August.You will receive the sum of $. 

for this period which includes ... % Vacation Pay. (You will be paid in Canadian funds) (You will be paid by cheque at the 
end of the season) 

The Camp will provide board and lodging equalling a value of $.per week, medical services to the extent of 

its facilities and cover you under Workmen's Compensation. 

You will be responsible for contribution to the Canada Pension Plan and Unemployment Insurance, where applicable, 
(for obtaining a Social Insurance Number if you are a Canadian) (bedding) (laundry expense) (tuck charges) (telephone 
charges) (transportation) (for damage due to your negligence) (for loss or theft of your belongings) 

You will be expected to comply with the following Camp policies: 

1. To rigidly abide by Camp rules and regulations governing SAFETY at Camp and away from Camp. 

2. Part of your responsibility as a member of the Camp Staff (and to the maintaining of the traditions of Children's Camping 
in Canada) is the need for you to be aware of the role you must play in maintaining good Public Relations in Camp and 
wherever you come in contact with the public. Conduct on your part which would reflect unfavourably on the Camp's 
reputation could be considered a breach of this contract. 

3. Our Staff is expected to assist with any and all duties involving programs or contingencies that may arise throughout the 
summer. (Should you be unable to satisfactorily handle all of your responsibilities and, as a result, have some of them 
handled by another party, your salary may be adjusted accordingly) 

4. "Drugs" have no place in Children's Camps and are not permitted. (Smoking is permitted in specified areas and only when 
campers are not present) (Alcoholic beverages are not permitted in Camp) 

The Camp retains the right to terminate this agreement at any time without notice if, in our opinion, there is sufficient 
cause or in the event that the Camp cannot open or is forced to close because of an unpredictable circumstance. In such a case, 
you will be paid a pro rata of your salary. In the event of your resignation, you must give two weeks' notice. You will be paid 
on a pro rata basis. If, as a result of illness or accident, you are unable to carry out your duties, we may reduce your salary on 
a pro rata basis. 

If the foregoing meets with your approval, sign one of these copies and return it to us within TEN days. (Retain the other 

copy for your own reference) (You will be expected to provide us with a Medical Certificate no later than.weeks 

before your arrival at Camp) 

Sincerely, 

Charles Whitewater, Director 

I understand and agree to accept the foregoing terms and conditions. 

Social Insurance No. 

Date and year of birth. (Signature) 


Some Directors have found it is more practical to print the contract on the front and back of the same sheet. 


8 













DO IT NOW! 

A Camp Director’s Check List 

by Eanswythe Flynn, 

Camp Brigadoon 


We hope all camp directors are clipping these articles for their scrap book of reminders. You will recall that in the Fall Edition 
we made lists of suggested duties and “musts” for the months of November, December, January and February. Since March, 
April and May will be upon us all too soon, and last season’s resolutions misplaced (in all probability), the following might 
bring to mind seasonal arrangements without which no camp can hope to open: 


MARCH 

Check fire extinguishers; have a com¬ 
pany specializing in safety equipment 
(or the local Fire Department) look 
over each one, see that the pressure 
gauge is operating and the tank full. 
Consider purchase of further ex¬ 
tinguishers and ask camp maintenance 
man to check fire hoses, nozzles and 
attachments. 

■ Discuss with dietician or cook new 
menus or new ways of serving food. 
Consider use (or non-use) of margar¬ 
ine and skim milk in the general camp 
menu, for table use, that is. 

■ If staff has been hired, or if a high 
percentage of last year’s staff is re¬ 
turning, this is the time to hold first 
meetings. 

■ Perhaps your job analyses are not 
expressed as well as they should be. 
Review these as well as the staff 
manual. 

■ Interview as many as possible in the 
way of prospects for vacant positions; 
avoid that last minute panic. 

■ If it is possible to get in to the camp 
property, do so, for the first examina¬ 
tion of property, equipment, beaver 
and mouse damage, ice and frost dam¬ 
age to docks, steps, tent platforms, etc. 

■ Outline necessary tree planting you 
would like to do this spring. Ask 
advice of local tree experts or the 
Ministry of Natural Resources. 

■ Keep in touch with your provincial 
camping association for any changes in 
legislation . . . labour regulations, 
Unemployment Insurance, salary 
scales, fees for canoe trippers in 
provincial parks, etc. 

■ Attend camping conferences, semi¬ 
nars and regular meetings of the camp¬ 
ing fraternity whenever they are 
offered. Don’t miss a one! 

■ See that arrangements are made 
with the Royal Life Saving Society and 
the Red Cross Society about clinics 


and courses for waterfront staff atten¬ 
dance. 

■ Keep abreast of market prices on 
all equipment, food and supplies, to 
keep the summer budget in line. Com¬ 
pare prices. See that you are getting 
the best possible values and this in¬ 
cludes regular deliveries and general 
good service in order to relieve worry 

APRIL 

If the spring is wet, line up all inside 
repairs and preparatory carpentry, 
painting and planning that can be done 
indoors. If a dry season is your luck, 
have your maintenance crew get to 
work, with all speed, on all outdoor 
projects, especially painting and stain¬ 
ing. Rains sometimes come late in the 
spring. 

■ Look over library and reference 
books. Make a list of those you wish 
to bring from the city for camp use in 
the summer. 

■ Have you re-assessed all your insur¬ 
ance needs lately? Call a consultation 
with your agent this month. 

■ Look into possible use of new time¬ 
saving or semi-prepared food products. 

■ Use paper cups, plates, etc., where 
it is practicable; but at the same time 
make sensible, non-polluting arrange¬ 
ments for quick disposal. 

■ Decide whether or not a commercial 
dish-washer is economical. If the camp 
is large enough it might save time and 
money; otherwise the three-sink 
method might be best in your case. 

■ See if there are any local farmers 
who could supply fresh eggs, vegetables 
or fruits later in the season. 

■ Check with fuel suppliers for regu¬ 
lar deliveries of oil or propane. 

■ If water is Hydro-heated, have their 
maintenance crew come in to examine 
tank for working elements and replace¬ 
ment, if necessary. 


■ If you need wood for a kitchen 
stove or fireplaces, have your mainten¬ 
ance staff work at wood-cutting to 
assure a good supply for the season. 

■ Make a list of medical and first-aid 
items to be purchased and delivered. 

■ Have all mattresses inspected for 
cleaning or repairs. Order new ones 
early in the season ... no later than 
this month. 

MAY 

A good month for a camper-parent- 
staff get-together either at camp, 
weather and roads permitting, or in the 
city, accompanied by coffee, juice, 
cookies, cakes, sandwiches . . . and 
good fellowship. 

■ This is the time to help parents 
understand what camp is all about, 
how they should handle the child, the 
kind of letters they should write . . . 
and not write; and how to send the 
child off happy and eager to be “up 
and away”. 

■ The first full staff training in town 
should be arranged now. 

■ If the camp travels together by bus 
or train, make, all final arrangements 
with transportation company. 

■ A meeting with local or camp doc¬ 
tor to discuss camp care will give him 
some idea of what’s expected during 
the summer. 

■ Send water samples (both drinking 
and swimming) regularly to Provincial 
Health Department. 

■ Find out from your provincial 
camping association whether or not 
this is your year for a Standards Visita¬ 
tion. If so, make all arrangements with 
office. 

■ Make out order for first deliveries 
of milk, bread, vegetables, and meat 
and give specific delivery date. 

■ If canoes or other watercraft are 
out for repair, be sure to arrange 
delivery date at least two weeks before 
camp opens. 


9 


Drama Games for Listening and Moving 

Lorna Wilson, 

Faculty of Education, Queen’s University 


“games can restore life 
playing around with words 
taking them out of one context 
and putting them in another , 
is a way of preserving or 
restoring their life ." 

(Corita Kent) 

Camp is fun and all the hard work 
doesn’t seem like hard work because 
it’s exciting, self-motivating and “worth 
it”. Drama is enjoyable and can be an 
activity shared by everyone, not just 
the extroverts and the “talented”. 

After many years of producing 
‘Skit Nights’, the ‘Once a Month Play’ 
and the ‘Musical’, I have designed a 
series of drama games based on sounds 
and movements. These games could be 
played on their own or joined together 
and presented as “a dramatic anthology 
of sound and movement”. There are a 
number of reasons why I prefer this 
type of drama activity: 

(1) The initial stimulus for all the 
games comes directly from the camp 
environment. All the material is 
gathered from the various areas of 
camp activities offered both indoors 
and out-of-doors. 

(2) All age groups can participate 
in these games as individuals or in 
small or large groups. 

(3) The nature of the project en¬ 
courages the experience to be creative 
for both the campers and the leaders. 
The group members start with nothing, 
then choose, build on, develop and 
polish their own material, thus making 
the experience more relevant and 
stimulating. 

(4) Everyone at camp can be invol¬ 
ved in these activities, not just the 
‘good performers’ or ‘extroverts’. 
Drama is encouraged as a general 
activity stressing an atmosphere of 
non-competitiveness and co-operation. 

(5) A spirit of play and exploration 
is created at the beginning by encourag¬ 
ing every idea. Nothing is rejected. The 
leader and several helpers can arrange 
the material as the experimentation 
progresses. 

(6) You don’t need a drama expert, 


just a human being, responsive and 
sympathetic. 

Here are some suggestions. They are 
just beginnings. I guarantee that they 
will provoke many more games. 
Listening Activities 

Find a quiet spot inside a building. 
Have everyone close his eyes. Then . . . 

(a) listen to sounds outside of the 
building. 

(b) listen to sounds inside the room. 

(c) listen to sounds inside yourself 
(become aware of your own breath- 
ing). 

Repeat, focus in on one sound and 
isolate that sound. Place it into an 
imaginary situation. What could the 
sound be? Where is it? Who are you in 
relation to the sound? Have the 
campers share these experiences with 
each other. Then share two or three 
stories with the leader. Encourage the 
campers to listen to sounds at varying 
distances from themselves, to sounds 
as other people might hear them, to 
moving sounds until they have dis¬ 
appeared from hearing, to hard and 
ugly sounds with intended tolerance, 
and so on. The list is endless. 

In pairs, take each other on a walk 
outdoors. One person keep his eyes 
closed and the other lead his partner 
all over the camp, allowing him to 
concentrate on sounds in the environ¬ 
ment. Try not to talk during this walk. 
When you return talk about your ex¬ 
perience and begin a diary listing all 
the sounds you heard. 

Story-telling from Sounds 

Choose three sounds heard by the 
group. Have each person make up a 
story using the sounds. Tell a partner 
your story. 

The leader makes three sounds while 
the group closes its eyes. Each indi¬ 
vidual makes up a story using the 
three sounds. In pairs, tell each other 
your story and make one story from 
two. Then two pairs join stories, mak¬ 
ing one larger story. If you’re brave, 
have two groups of four join together 
and eight people create one story. Give 
each group about ten minutes to 


dramatize the story using no words. 
Be sure the stories have a beginning 
and an ending. 

One group re-creates six sounds 
heard from the environment. Another 
group tells a story. The story changes 
as the first group interjects sounds at 
various moments. Both groups need 
to work closely together. 

Rhythm Band 

Each camper can make rhythm 
band instruments from materials from 
outdoors, i.e., two sticks, rocks, 
pebbles in a shell, blade of grass 
between fingers, etc. The day they 
bring in their instruments allow no 
talking and have them introduce and 
converse with each other only using 
the instruments. 

Story-telling using the Rhythm Band 

Dramatize meetings (pow wows, 
rituals, rest hour, staff meetings, battle 
procedures,etc.) using only the rhythm 
band. Communication with opposing 
groups must only take place with the 
instruments. Add movement if working 
on rituals or attacks. 

Divide into groups of six and give 
groups one theme such as ‘sunset’, 
‘escape’, ‘thunder storm’ and have 
them present this theme only using 
sound. Give them new themes and 
have them use sound and movement. 
Choose themes relevant to the camp 
environment. 

Dramatize various events using a 
series of still pictures or tableaux, i.e., 
‘trouble on a portage’, ‘rescue on the 
water’, ‘an unwelcome friend’, ‘rest 
hour becomes chaos’ etc. Use the 
instruments as bridges or transitions 
between tableaux. 

Keep a Diary of Sounds 

Take actual sounds from the en¬ 
vironment and reproduce them vocally 
to tell a story or use the realistic 
sound and reproduce them in strange 
combinations to illustrate an idea or 
create a mood. Ideas for sounds are 
the dinner gong, songs (with no words), 
paddliAg, horse hooves, screen doors 
opening and closing, walking through 
leaves, splashes at the waterfront, boats, 


10 


walking on the dock, flag going up the 
pole, whistles, fire crackling, balls hit 
and tossed, garbage truck, creaky beds, 
window shutters, etc. 

Collect vocal sounds such as talking, 
crying, yelling, shouting, whispering, 
whimpering. Tell stories or create im¬ 
provisations using only these sounds. 
Add movement. Associate these sounds 
with other people in other places and 
make up more imaginative improvisa¬ 
tions. 

Collect and invent more games with 
animal and insect sounds, the sound of 
thunder, lightning, wind and rain. 

Have groups add movement to vocal 
sounds and create machines ingroups. 
After establishing a variety of practical 


machines (real and imaginary) play 
with metaphor machines, i.e., a flag 
raising machine, a dining hall machine, 
a rainy day machine, a counsellor 
machine. 

These exercises can be approached 
as games or as more intensive project 
work. With more concentrated effort a 
dramatic anthology of sound and 
movement utilizing these ideas could 
be developed, rehearsed, given a name 
and presented. While working on this 
for “presentation” a theme should be 
chosen which will allow the leader to 
pick relevant material from the 
exercises. 

Further projects could involve 
games in looking, tasting, smelling and 


touching. Add some movement, speech 
and a musical background and the 
elements for drama are all present, 
providing the exercises are approached 
with absorption and sincerity. 

“one way to prepare for big 
celebrations is to allow life to 
reveal its many small ones to keep 
it from being so daily. ” 

(Corita Kent) 

Ideas’ Books. 

Way, Brian. Development through 
Drama. Longmans 1966. 

Kemp, David. A Different Drummer. 

McClelland & Stewart 1972. 
barton-booth-buckles-moore. Nobody 
in the Cast. Longmans 1969. ▲ 




ALL CAMPER'S CLOTHING AND 
BELONGINGS 

should be marked for easy identification 
and to avoid loss. 

CAMP LINEN AND EQUIPMENT, TOO, 
should be marked to avoid confusion 
and loss. 

NAMES OR NUMBERS CAN BE 
SUPPLIED. 

Order CASH'S NAME TAPES from 
department stores and other dealers — 
or direct from 




box 11 6 


BELLEVILLE, ONT. 


PRINTED NAME PRICES 

6 doz. $2.00 9 doz. $2.25 

12 doz. $2.45 24 doz. $3.60 

No C.O.D. 's. Please mail cheque or 
money order. 

(Ontario Residents add 5% retail sales tax) 



We specialize in Crests, Crested Shirts, 
Jackets etc., specially designed for your 
camp requirements. 


We carry complete inventory 

On: Trampolines, Volleyball, Softball, 
Basketball, Indoor and Outdoor 
Games, Life Saving Equipment, 
Shuffleboard, Tetherball, Archery, 
Flag Football, First Aid Kits a* 
wholesale prices. 


JACK WATSON 

SPORTS, INC. 

30 Mobile Dr., Toronto 16 


Phono 757-2844 free Catalogue 


Langford 

Canoe 

Company 

Proprietors 

Mr. & Mrs. Ken Treadwell 
Baysville, Ontario 
Tel.: 705-766-2433 

We specialize in quality 
repairs to all types of 
canoes. 

Pickup and delivery service 
can be arranged within a 
wide radius of our well- 
established canoe workshop, 
viz., Haliburton, Muskoka, 
Parry Sound, Temagami, 
etc. 

Phone or write today and 
avoid the seasonal rush. 


11 


















Two Approaches 


To Camp Staff Manuals 


A revised article from a session given at an OCA 
Conference by the participants: 

Bruno Morawetz, Camp Ponacka , Fred Dier, 
Camp Wakana, and Don Groff ex-Director 
of Camping, Kitchener-Waterloo YMCA. 

Definition 

A STAFF MANUAL is a booklet prepared by the camp for 
the purpose of informing its future staff about the camp 
and their role in it. 

Reasons for using a staff manual 

1. Orientation of staff (especially new members) to the 
physical features of the camp. 

2. Interpretation of traditions, philosophies, objectives and 
emphases (i.e. of the camp and of the camping move¬ 
ment). 

3. Sharing of information about procedures, regulations, 
job expectations, organizational structure, schedules, 
routines, etc. Involvement in decision-making leads to 
committed participation. 

4. Preparation and training for job performance and basis 
for pre-camp training. 

5. Avoidance of frustration, confusion, misunderstanding 
and apprehension arising from lack of communication. 

Most staff manuals contain: 

1. General — 

Table of contents 
Purpose of Manual 
Forward, welcome 

II. Facts about the camp — 

1. Locale:- directional map to get there 

— sketch of site showing trails, program 
areas, buildings, etc. 

— description of special features of the 
setting 

— special problems which site gives rise to 
(communications, etc.) 

2. Traditions, philosophy, etc.: 

— statements outlining and interpreting 
these 

— statement relating camp’s objectives to 
the camping movement and its philos¬ 
ophy 

— brief historical sketch of the camp 

— explanation of role that camping plays 
in the total program of the sponsoring 
organization, where such exists 

— explanation of special emphases in pro¬ 
gram, procedures, etc. as they arise from 
the background, tradition and philosophy 
of the camp 

3. Procedures and regulations: 

— for administration, staff meetings, etc. 

— for emergencies, safety, waterfront, use 
of boats, etc. 


for routines, typical day, typical week, 
Sunday programs 

for programming, special events, etc. 
for inter-camp relationships (e.g. OCA, 
Canoe tripping, etc.) 
for use of camp vehicles, equipment, etc. 

4. Organizational structure: 

- channels of communication 

- supervisory relationships 
co-operative relationships 

- future staff opportunities 

5. Shared decision-making: 

defining problems 

- collecting facts 

assessing facts and testing solutions 

- planning 

- action 

- evaluation 

6. Personnel policies: 

sickness allowance 

- employment and dismissal procedures 
salary scales and payment procedure 

- travel to and from camp, charges for 
laundry, etc. 

III. What the counsellor needs to know — 

The art of counselling: 

1. About the camper: 

why he comes to camp 

- what he is like at each age level 

- his needs by age groups 

- common behavioural problems and their 
“solutions” 

health needs (danger of fatigue) 

2. Leadership: 

Do’s and Don’ts of counselling 

- what makes a good leader 

- what makes a good counsellor 

- camper guidance 

- need for self-discipline, personal habits, 
rest requirements 

importance of example 

3. Discipline: 

- meaning of discipline 

what kinds of punishment, if any 
factors in group discipline 

- building of esprit de corps 
do’s and don’ts of discipline 

4. The cabin counsellor: 

special qualifications 

-cabin routines (rising, ablutions, meals, 
clean-up, rest-hour, parent letters, parcels, 
prayers) 

duties before campers’ arrival 

- rainy day activities, books, stories 

5. Counsellor du ties: 

- night patrol 


12 



- life guard 

- evening snacks 

- records and reports 

- relation to all-camp programs 

6. Privileges: 

- evening snacks 

- laundry facilities 

- tuck shop 

- recreation areas 

program (swimming, crafts, riding, skiing, 
boats, canoes) 

- time-off (days, nights, daily period) 

- staff car, if any 

7. Public relations: 

- procedure for visitors (anytime, special 
days) 

- deportment on days off 

- consideration for cottagers, neighbours, 
nearby communities 

8. Awards available to campers or staff: 

- requirements, standards of various camp 
activities and their awards 

9. Preparation before camp: 

- what to read - bibliography 

- what to prepare - rainy days, games, 
campfire programs 

- what to bring - clothing, bedding, equip¬ 
ment, medical certificate 

10. The intangible rewards: 

- the unique nature of camp life 

- satisfaction of a worthwhile job 

- building of lasting friendships 

- investment in personal health 

- gratitude of campers and families 

IV. Sample forms used at camp — 

- test sheets (swimming, canoeing, camp- 
craft, etc.) 

- tripping reports, what to take, hints for 
safety 

- parent reports, reports to section heads, 
etc. 

- counsellor evaluation 

V. Job analyses - 

- program director 

- section head 

- specialist, assistant specialist 

- activity counsellor, assistant 

- cabin counsellor 
— C.l.T. program 

VI. The manual as reference material — 

- list of games and activities 

- rules for games 

- first-aid knowledge 

VII. Bibliography — 

— Department of Health, Ottawa; pamphlets 
on behavioural problems, fatigue, etc. 
(free) 

— Department of Transport: Boating Safety 
Guide 

— OCA Conference Digests (’66, ’67 and 
’68) and Reports (’71 and ’72) 


- “The Camp Program Book” - Catherine 
Hammet (Association Press, N.Y.) 

- “The Call of Algonquin” - Mary G. 
Hamilton (Ryerson Press, Toronto) 

- “Talks to Counsellors” — Dimock and 
Statten (Association Press) 

- “The Camp Counsellor’s Book” - North- 
way & Lowes (Longmans Canada Ltd.) 

- “Summer Magic” - Kenneth & Susan 
Webb (Association Press) 

- “Lights from a Thousand Campfires” - 
Kenneth B. Webb (Association Press) 

- “Camp Waterfront Programs and Manage¬ 
ment” - Richard H. Pohndorf (Associa¬ 
tion Press) 

VIII. Hints for preparing manual — 

- bind in stiff, loose-leaf cover 

- do not overcrowd pages, leave ample 
space between sections 

- use simple language 

- be brief 

- use different coloured pages for different 
sections (compulsory material, basis for 
pre-camp training, reference material) 

- the tone of the Manual sets the tone of 
the future counsellor 

A Counsellor’s Manual 

Ed. H. Devitt 

Former Director, Camp Comak 

Compiling a “counsellor’s manual” should be a mutual 
affair. Campers, counsellors, senior staff members and the 
director can all make contributions. 

A new director in a new camp might well put down a 
preliminary draft, but there is no reason to bring it down 
from on high, engraved on stone tablets. The most practical 
manual evolves over the years out of the shared experience 
of a specific camp group. 

This ideal manual should, in fact, never be finished but 
always evolving. This constant need for change, additions 
and appendices suggests a mimeographed loose-leaf format. 
A printed page is too final and discourages revision. 

The first effort should be to put into words the aims, 
special purposes and basic philosophy of the camp. Through 
discussion, verbalization and analysis a “perfect” philosophy 
and approach may emerge. But the staff of a really great 
camp is then prepared to start all over again to hammer out 
an even better philosophy and approach. 

The counsellor’s manual is really an encyclopedia. New 
counsellors will read it from cover to cover several times. It 
should include all forms, procedures, understandings, 
arrangements and agreements. The index should list such 
matters as: activities, baggage, business arrangements, canoe 
trips, clean-up, discipline, fire-drill, health and safety, 
leadership principles, organization, public relations, rest 
periods, safety tests, showers and toilets, visitors, water¬ 
front drills. 

Almost as soon as a manual is printed it becomes 
obsolete, in some respects at least. That is no reason to 
avoid the project. The making of a manual is a valuable 
opportunity and challenge to involve all in the absorbing 
task of preserving what is good in the past and present and 
adding what is needed for future growth. 


13 


3fn jHemortam 


A TRIBUTE TO MRS. TEDDY HOYLE 



One could not help 
but be adventurous if 
one starts life by being 
born on a riverboat in 
Kashmir! Such was the 
fate of Teddy Hoyle 
whose life was truly 
an adventure - right 
up to the time of her 
death in the fall of 
1972. 

In 1929 Teddy ven¬ 
tured forth to a new 
land — Canada — a 
land in which she intended to make her fame and 
fortune. Perhaps she didn’t find the fortune, but indeed 
she found fame amongst the thousands of young girls 
who came to kn6w her as one of the Directors of Camp 
Gay Venture, Haliburton, Ontario. 

About thirteen years after Teddy married John Hoyle, 
the couple founded Gay Venture in 1946 — and from 
that point on G.V. continued to rise to the ranks of one 
of the finest children’s camps in Canada. ‘The Major”, 
as John Hoyle was affectionately called, always knew he 
had the support, council, loyalty, and above all, deep 
love and devotion of his wife, Teddy. 

In truth, Teddy was considered by some as an 
eccentric. She was a “no nonsense” woman and indeed 
everyone always knew where they stood with her. Her 
strong, but shy nature initially made it difficult to get 
to know her, but after one or two chats, interspersed 
with humour and teasing, Teddy became a person who 
was adored and loved. Whether we, as staff members, 
liked it or not, Teddy always gave us advice (and inside 


we all knew it was the right advice!). She never held a 
grudge. She was a most forgiving, understanding woman 
and above all, she and the Major helped so many of us to 
more fully appreciate ourselves so that we could more 
effectively realize our responsibilities in working with 
children. 

After her husband’s death, Teddy continued to play 
an active role at Camp Gay Venture, but finally her 
proudly independent nature forced her to move to 
another adventure. At 60 and without advising or con¬ 
sulting her family, she bought a farm north of Toronto 
and began boarding and raising horses. Until shortly 
before her death, Teddy kept in shape by running a mile 
every day and if high snowbanks prevented her from 
running along a road, she did her mile running around a 
tree! 

Many people consider Teddy to be one of the last of 
a generation - a generation of proud, gallant, “gutsy”, 
independent women. A former staff member and parent 
states, “What a legacy she has left to our young people 
her integrity, her courage, her vitality and her intense 
joy in living”, while another staff member and camper 
writes, “But one cannot remain sad for long when think¬ 
ing about Teddy. She was such a vital person, with 
wonderful spirit. Teddy has always been and always will 
be a happy thought for me”. 

Teddy possessed a spirit for living and a great sense of 
humour and those of us who became a part of her life 
can only express gratitude for the opportunity we had 
to know and be influenced by her. Hopefully, we are 
better human beings because Teddy Hoyle passed 
through our lives. 

Peggy Latimer 



A Singing Grace 

Tune: Edelweiss 

Thank you. Lord, on this day. 

For Your many great blessings, 
Thank you. Lord, on this day, 

For our many great friendships. 
Glory to God. 

May You hear our prayer. 

Guide us on Forever, 

Thank you. Lord, on this day. 

For our blessings and friendships. 

— Courtesy: 

Jack Pearse, Camp Tawingo 


14 












YaWaCa Comes Home 

by Patricia M. Russell 

Member of YaWaCa Outdoor Centre Board, Vancouver Y.W.C.A. 


“To celebrate the tenth year of 
Camp YaWaCa, we came home and 
settled into the beautiful new resident 
camp site at the YaWaCa Outdoor 
Centre on Salt Spring Island. Campers, 
staff and the YaWaCa Board felt re¬ 
newed and excited about having a 
permanent site at last. A place to be. 
A place with such potential for camp¬ 
ing experiences and a place where 
everyone could initiate new ideas on a 
permanent site.” 

This opening paragraph of the Camp 
Director’s report on YaWaCa '72 well 
describes how all those involved felt 
this past summer. 

In 1962 the Vancouver Y.W.C.A. 
made a study and found a need for 
more resident camping for girls in 
British Columbia. The following sum¬ 
mer, Camp YaWaCa began on rented 
premises at a seaside campsite on Howe 
Sound. There it continued for several 
years but eventually had to move, and 
move again. The ninth year found the 
camp two hundred miles inland on the 
Okanagan Lake. 

It was apparent, in 1969, that Camp 
YaWaCa could not sustain this nomadic 
existence and a Task Force scouted far 
and wide for a suitable property. 
Finally, the old Bulman Farm on Salt 
Spring Island was discovered and nego¬ 
tiations with the owner, McMillan 
Bloedel Ltd. began. The Vancouver 
Y.W.C.A. has a lease on the farm 
property only, but this is surrounded 
by some twelve hundred acres of forest 
reserve which gives the Outdoor Centre 
great privacy. 

Salt Spring Island is the largest of 
the Gulf Islands, and to get there one 
travels by ferry through the beautiful 
island-studded Gulf of Georgia. The 
drive and ferry trip from Vancouver 
takes about 3 l /i hours. The peaceful 
island offers mountains to climb, se¬ 
cluded bays and harbours to explore, 
small lakes, forests and rolling farm¬ 
land. 

The Bulman Farm had been unten¬ 
anted for twenty years but there re¬ 
mained the farmhouse and barn, rather 
ramshackled, set in an old but still 


productive orchard. The forest land 
that surrounds the ten acre clearing has 
wonderful variety. Every sort of tree 
from arbutus to Douglas fir grows from 
a rich undergrowth of salal, Oregon 
grape and gigantic sword ferns. 

A half hour hike through these 
lovely woods brings one to a beach 
rich in marine life; clams and oysters 
for the picking. Ten minutes in the 
other direction and the campers are 
able to swim in the warm waters of 
Weston Lake. 

The house and barn have been reno¬ 
vated and serve as a multipurpose 
office, library and meeting place and 
arts and craft centre. The barn loft is a 
natural stage for dramatics. New build¬ 
ings are of the modular type and their 
box-like contours are softened by cedar 
siding and shingled mansard roofs. The 
kitchen-dining hall is comprised of 
four units giving an overall dimension 
of 60' x 48\ Cabin units are nestled 
among the trees. 

YaWaCa can accommodate forty- 
eight campers plus staff. All buildings 
are winterized and it is called the 
YaWaCa Outdoor Centre because it is 
to be used the year round; by Y.W.C.A. 
program groups, other organizations, 
schools and by Salt Spring Island resi¬ 
dents. 

The person who worked hardest to 
make YaWaCa on Salt Spring a reality 
was Mrs. Tanya Krisman, the Camp 
Director from ’67 to ’72. In April she 
was killed in an automobile accident 
and for a while the YaWaCa Board 
found it very hard to proceed. How¬ 
ever we had to make a dream come 
true. Dickering with builders, health 
department, hydro etc. continued. 

In June, we were much heartened 
by the arrival of Mrs. Sally Schwetz to 
be the Camp YaWaCa director. She has 
a rich background of Y.W. and camp 
experience, but most valuable of all, a 
warm and serene personality. The task 
that faced her was enormous. To deal 
with staff and campers, each and every¬ 
one new to her was enough; but to 
move into an unfinished, unknown 
campsite was an additional challenge. 



But Sally, supported by an excellent 
staff, did wonders; and four happy 
camp sessions were the result. 

The site was found to provide a 
great range of activity for the YaWaCa 
campers — archery, arts and crafts, 
Hebertisme, outtripping, nature lore 
(an ecologist on staff made this a 
fascinating study for all), visits to 
neighbouring farms, swimming, boat¬ 
ing and even jam-making! Campers had 
great fun exploring and naming each 
new area. One bonanza was the dis¬ 
covery of outcroppings of rock to form 
useful knolls; the large one near the 
camp, about fifty feet in diameter, be¬ 
came the council ring, another with a 
beautiful tree is the chapel, and still 
another which requires quite a climb 
gives a bird’s eye view of the camp. 

On “National Camping Day”, the 
farm house was named “Skipper’s 
Shack”, in memory of Tanya Krisman. 
This moving ceremony was recognition 
that Camp YaWaCa would not have 
had its new home in 1972 without the 
spirit, hard work and far-sightedness of 
its former director. It was fitting too, 
that the first occupants of the Van¬ 
couver Y.W.C.A.’s Outdoor Centre 
were the YaWaCa campers and staff 
whom Tanya knew so well. 

Camp YaWaCa will be back next 
summer. In the meantime, school 
classes, Y.W.C.A. groups of all ages and 
small parties are enjoying and benefit¬ 
ing from the resources of the Outdoor 
Centre and the leadership that is avail¬ 
able there. A 


15 



For coloured flames, mix together 
barium nitrate (blue), copper chloride 
(green), sodium chloride (orange), 
strontium nitrate (red), calcium nitrate 
(yellow), potassium chloride (purple); 
sprinkle on flames or soak logs in 
solution (1 lb. chemical to 1 gal. of 
water). Soft woods like pine absorb 
better but burn faster. 


Where is the leak? ... If you wish to 
determine where your canoe leaks, 
support it on three logs, fill it with 
water and see where the drops of 
water appear. 


Tear in the canoe canvas on an out- 
trip? Tape over the tear with adhesive 
tape (not bandaids) and liberally apply 
OZONOL (from your First Aid Kit) 
over the tape. 


To waterproof matches, dip them in 
melted paraffin, allow wax to cool, 
then store in a tin or glass container. 


Pottery made at camp or at home can 
be very harmful. Remember that 
adorable clay pitcher a camper made 
and proudly presented to you at the 
end of camp? It’s perfect for keeping 
orange juice ice cold in the refrigerator. 
And once in a while stewed tomatoes 
or sauerkraut are stored in it. 

Here’s a way to get even more 
enjoyment from that product of 
creative little hands: Get rid of it! 

For unless you know precisely how 
that piece of crockery was made or 
have gone to the trouble and expense 
of getting it analyzed by a laboratory, 
the toxic metals in the glaze could be 
lethal. Glazes are the glass-like coatings 
fused at high heat to earthenware sur¬ 
faces. They typically contain signi¬ 
ficant amounts of lead or other heavy 
metals that add colour and speed the 
fusion process. 


Flies are no respecters of persons and 
places. Do you have trouble with ! 
toilet seat lids left up? If so, follow | 
Camp Mazinaw’s example. Print on j 
the under side “Please put me downl’k $ 


A Counsellor 
Writes_ 

by Ken Lockwood 
Camp Mazinaw 

Dear Brian: 

Although 1 am in a somewhat 
dubious position to make effective 
judgments on the campers in my cabin, 
I thought you might be interested in 
some of my thoughts on being a coun¬ 
sellor this summer. It is not that I 
became emotionally attached to the 
campers, but my involvement with 
them gives a rather one-sided and 
unobjective view of their progress. 
Since lam limited in my understanding 
of 11 and 12 year olds, my comments 
can only be of a general nature at best. 

The counsellors, indeed all the 
people employed by the Camp, are in 
a position of having to fit into the 
general philosophical ideas and ideals 
of the Camp as well as its long “tradi¬ 
tion”, but at the same time remaining 
as individuals and bringing new ideas 
and things to do, sort of like feeding 
the Camp environment. 

What I am talking about here, is the 
counsellor’s willingness to compromise. 
During the first summer I was at the 
Camp I found it difficult to undertake 
such a compromise, partly because I 
had little knowledge of this or, for that 
matter, any other Camp, and how it is 
run. However this year I felt that 1 
knew the people at the Camp, at least 
a little bit, and as the summer pro¬ 
gressed along 1 felt quite at home with 
the people. It is my regret that the 
relationships could not have continued 
longer where all of us were together at 
the Camp. 

Tripping is probably the greatest 
and most valuable single thing that the 
Camp has to offer the campers. I think 
as far as Tripping goes that I saw more 
progress in my kids than in all other 
activities put together (perhaps I 
should replace “progress” with 
“change”). 

On trips the kids were put into an 
environment where they couldn’t easily 
get out. There was no place for them 
to run should they want to cop out. I 
realise that for certain kids at that age, 
this could quite easily be a bad experi¬ 
ence, but I was lucky enough to have 



Photo Courtesy Camp Trailfinder 


kids that enjoyed the whole lot of it. 
They hardly need encouragement for 
more. 

Tripping eliminated quite a lot of 
common luxury from their lives, and 
even at their age I felt that they put 
values on things that they normally 
wouldn’t have had a chance to do. As 
well, it puts them in a position of put 
up or shut-up, and a chance to feel out 
their own potential in a group. It is a 
prerequisite that they learn to live 
together, and even though they wor¬ 
ried about themselves only, they re¬ 
alised that they were all in it together. 

I found that the campers are cer¬ 
tainly capable of doing many things 
which perhaps we feel they are either 
too young to do or should be doing at 
their present physical development. 
Perhaps some of the things that I 
asked them to do were a bit too much 
but more often than not they per¬ 
formed well and didn’t gripe too much. 
This would lead me to believe that 
either we have underestimated their 
capabilities or they have cleverly hid¬ 
den their dislikes. 

But the trips were a lot of sweat 
too, sometimes even for me. Anyway, 
I was amazed at the endurance those 
little guys had on the portages, especi¬ 
ally on our last trip when we had to do 
three pretty long ones in one day. 

I never knew exactly what to expect 
and I have to admit I have always been 
a little intimidated by kids; perhaps 
I’m a little worried about losing some 
of my child-like ways, perhaps we all 
are; perhaps that is why I feel, or did 
feel this summer, that way about my 
campers. But I think that I developed 
a respect for them which 1 normally 
wouldn’t have had. Their respect for 
me is intrinsic; they know about as 
much about me as I do about them. 
We all learned to live a little more 
comfortably in the bush with one 
another and that’s a good thing. 

It was a great summer. 

Good Tripping, 

Ken 

Editor's Note: This letter has been printed 
as the camp director received it because it 
has a ring of authenticity. 


16 















A 


Camper 


Says 


by Judy Richards 
Camp Wahcahmie 


Two pairs of white shorts, two 
white shirts, three other outfits, a 
sleeping bag, a flashlight . . . There! 
that completes the clothing and sundry 
items. I’m off to camp! 

Are you wondering whether you 
really want to go to camp? Maybe I 
can help you. What are you looking 
for this summer? Swimming? Sailing? 
Tripping? A good tan? New friends? 
Fun? If so, camp is the place for you. 

I would like to tell you about some 
of the things 1 liked most about camp 
this past summer. 

Every Saturday night is Indian 
council ring which means a tribal 
gathering on council rock. We parade 
single file dressed in colourful blankets 
and Indian headdress to greet the Big 
Chief who then lights the council fire. 
We have three tribes. Each challenges 
the other to a feat of physical or 
mental skill. It isgreat fun and I’m sure 
our laughter can be heard on the main¬ 
land. 

Each cabin group has six campers. 
It is our responsibility to keep our 
cabin neat and tidy but as you may 
suppose, this is not always done. Dur¬ 
ing free time and rest hour we spend 
many enjoyable hours together — 
talking, fooling and getting to know 
each other better. 

My greatest thrill was in learning 
how to sail. I really enjoyed pulling in 
and letting out the sail and handling 
the tiller. It was even fun to capsize - 
to you landlubbers this means dump. 

To my surprise I was picked to go 
on the long canoe trip. To the strains 



of “So Long We’ll See You Again” we 
briskly paddled out of our bay. We 
paddled, we swam, we set up camp¬ 
sites, we sang songs, we slept, we 
enjoyed life in the out-of-doors. In¬ 
sects buzzing around our heads, ashes 
in our food, lumps beneath our sleep¬ 
ing bags didn’t bother us in the least. 
Three days later we not so briskly 
paddled homewards to camp. 

I would like to tell you about a few 
special events. 

On a special night the moon is full 
and the stars shine forth in all their 
brilliance. Campers are awakened by a 
knock on the cabin door with the 
magic words “It’s Blue Moon Night. 
Arise and come away with me”. The 
campers rub the sleep out of their eyes 
and with excitement gleefully follow 
their counsellor to the beach. They 
paddle across the lake in the moon¬ 
light under a blanket of stars. On the 
far shore a campfire is built, marsh¬ 
mallows are toasted and after a song 
or two the return journey is made to 
camp. 

Earlier than usual one morning the 
bugle awakens us. We are told to wash 
and hurry to flag pole rock. There we 
are told we must hunt for our break¬ 
fast. We make our way among the 
pines and to our utter amazement we 
find oranges hanging from some trees 
and boxes of cereal beneath the boughs 


Photo Courtesy Camp Wahcahmie 

of others. It’s great fun and we all 
enjoyed our outdoor breakfast. 

Sunday is a special day at camp. To 
the campers’ delight we have a late 
rising bell. After breakfast and cabin 
clean-up we don white shorts and white 
shirts. The bell calls us to outdoor 
chapel. We reverently make our way 
under the arch of birch and take our 
places on rocks above the sparkling 
waters of Kanata Bay. Our camp 
director stands before a wooden altar 
with the choir beside her. Her chapel 
talks are enjoyed by all. As we leave 
the chapel our voices are joined in the 
singing of the camp hymn, “God who 
touchest earth with beauty”. 

Sunday afternoon finds us at the 
waterfront, usually a regatta is in full 
swing. The regatta is followed by cabin 
picnics, a sauna and a refreshing dip in 
the lake. Poetry and stories and snack 
are enjoyed around the fire and we are 
ready for lights out. 

My feelings about camp are best 
summed up in a verse from a poem 
by Mary S. Edgar: 

“For once you have been a camper, 
Something has come to stay, 

Deep in your heart forever, 

Which nothing can take away. 

And heaven can only be heaven, 
With a camp in which to play. ” 

Editor's Note:. The above was written for a 
Grade 7 Public Speaking Contest. 


17 



Camping for the Unmarried Mother 

Mrs. Sandy Hyman, M.S.W. 

Camp Co-ordinator, The Children’s Aid Society of Winnipeg 



The pregnant unmarried girl and 
the unmarried mother who keeps her 
baby are no longer unusual cases in the 
world today. During 1971 The Chil¬ 
dren’s Aid Society of Winnipeg helped 
862 unmarried mothers. Of these, 54% 
kept their babies. These statistics illus¬ 
trate the extent of this social problem. 
Helping these women presents a chal¬ 
lenge that can be met in innovative 
ways. 

New attention is being paid to 
pregnancy of late. In the world of 
fashion the “pregnant look” is in for 
1972 regardless of whether a woman 
is pregnant or not. Stars of stage and 
screen such as Patti Duke and political 
people such as Bernadette Devlin are 
openly having children and keeping 
them with no immediate intentions of 
marriage. It almost seems as if these 
trend-setters are capitalizing on a social 
problem. 

We are confident that Duke and 
Devlin can take care of themselves, but 
many unmarried mothers need a “lift” 
when it comes to recreation. Out-of- 
doors recreation such as hitch-hiking 
across country or going to beaches are 
popular leisure activities that are diffi¬ 
cult for unmarried mothers. 

We are proud to share with you 
some notes on our camping projects 
for pregnant girls and unmarried 
mothers. The values of these programs 
to both groups have been demon¬ 
strated. As far as we know both pro¬ 
jects are unique. 

The sessions are offered at two 
different camps. However, they were 
initiated for basically the same reasons: 

1. To provide an opportunity for re¬ 
laxation and a holiday away from 
hectic city life and/or small cramped 
living quarters. 

2. To contribute to the happiness and 
feeling of well-being for those who 
live a mundane existence. 


3. To offer a sense of equality; “I 
want to be like other people and 
do the same things they do”. 

4. Opportunity for group activities, 
development of friendship with 
peers in similar circumstances. 

5. To offer a learning experience about 
new things and/or a chance to do 
things they could not otherwise do. 

6. It is a rare unmarried mother who 
can afford babysitters in order to 
get out with friends. As Mrs. Isobel 
Garvie of our Society says: “the 
children are here and they have 
needs — the issue is not how they 
got here but what are we going to 
do to help them now that they are 
here” (Winnipeg Free Press, October 
17 , 1970). 

Since camp for unmarried mothers 
who have kept their babies (we refer 
to them as “keepers”) began first we 
shall take things in reverse order. 
Camping for Unmarried Mothers 
and their Children 

This agency saw the need for some 
of the keepers and their youngsters to 
have a holiday but did not feel we had 
the skill, money nor facilities to help 
them directly. In July, 1970, one of 
our workers, who has a keepers case¬ 
load, identified eight girls who had 
minimal funds for recreation, no family 
to leave their youngsters with for a 
few days and no friend to take them 
to a beach. At a moment of creative 
and desperate searching the worker 
asked the agency’s camp co-ordinator 
if there was any possibility of a holiday 
for these eight girls and their kiddies 
at a camp. 

The most appropriate camp (for 
the reasons mentioned below), United 
Church Fresh Air Camp, was contacted. 
The director felt there was space for 
them in one session of Mothers’ Camp— 
for separated women with children 
under eight years. The girls had an 
enjoyable experience balanced with 
relaxation and fun. Everyone involved— 
the girls, their worker, the camp staff- 
considered the experience a memorable 
and successful one. These positive re¬ 
sults, along with our large caseloads of 
keepers who could benefit from a 
similar experience, encouraged the 
camp director, our agency’s camp co¬ 


ordinator and the two workers carrying 
keepers caseloads to plan for the sum¬ 
mer of 1971. 

Twenty-eight girls and thirty-three 
children attended and, on the whole, 
results were favourable and exciting. 
Babysitters cared for the children in 
the morning after breakfast to permit 
mothers to do cabin-cleanup, personal 
laundry and enjoy relaxation. Mothers 
and children spent the afternoon and 
early evening together. Food was pre¬ 
pared by the camp cook but mothers 
were responsible for the children at 
meal-time. Babysitters and mothers 
took turns putting kiddies to bed. 
After bedtime the women enjoyed 
various group activities. The following 
were some activities in which the 
women took part: (those marked with 
an * included the children) tour of a 
whiskey distillery, fire hall*, town and 
hospital, visit to a dairy farm*, church 
services*, picnic outings*, sports such 
as baseball, volleyball, archery, swim¬ 
ming, craft projects, cards and bingo, 
and discussions about baby care and 
birth control. 

In the summer of 1972 twenty-two 
girls and twenty-six children attended. 
The basic difference in program was 
that babysitters were only available in 
the morning. The girls took turns 
minding the children in the afternoon 
and evening. 

The location and physical facilities 
of this camp are of tremendous advan¬ 
tage for these sessions. The camp is 
located in Gimli, a small town 60 miles 
from Winnipeg. There is a hospital, 
drive-in restaurant and drug store 
(good for inexpensive treats for 
mothers and kids) and other typical 
small town resources. The women and 
older kiddies slept in a laige commune- 
type cabin. Since there was little 
privacy, many complained but felt the 
rest of the camp experience made up 
for the poor sleeping accommodations. 
Those with children under one year of 
age shared semi-private rooms. The 
lounge and small kitchen in a separate 
cabin were loved by all. Here they felt 
very much at home and enjoyed many 
hours of chit-chat, doing crafts to 
brighten up their suites in the city, and 
just relaxing. 


18 



Camping for the 
Pregnant Unmarried Mother 

The camp for pregnant girls was an 
out-growth of the above-mentioned 
project. The camp director for Lifeline 
Camp, sponsored by the Greater Winni¬ 
peg Youth for Christ, heard about the 
“Keepers Camp” and attended a meet¬ 
ing. She felt Lifeline Camp, situated 
on an island in the Lake of the Woods, 
was not amenable for mothers and 
young children but had good possi¬ 
bilities for pregnant girls. 

The general purpose of the camp is 
to work with disadvantaged teens who 
are involved with delinquencies. Many 
pregnant girls cannot enjoy recreation 
out-of-doors in the summer as clothing 
does not hide pregnancy as well as 
winter garb does. It was felt a small 
camp setting, for just the girls and the 
counsellors, would allow for freedom, 
security, trust and interdependence 
with girls in similar circumstances. 

In 1971 ten girls not beyond the 
end of their seventh month attended 
and thoroughly enjoyed themselves. In 
1972 eleven girls attended the five day 
session. Program included canoeing 
(for those who were able), swimming, 
crafts, cook-outs, boat rides, sun tan¬ 
ning, helping with meals and discus¬ 
sions. 

The Children’s Aid workers involved 
with the campers (pregnants and keep¬ 
ers) talked with them following camp. 
Some of their recommendations made 
in 1971 were incorporated in the 1972 
sessions and hopefully some made this 
year will become part of the 1973 
sessions. 

We could go on forever about these 
two projects. We feel the benefits pro¬ 
vided to the campers are many. Both 
camps which offered these sessions are 
people-oriented. What has resulted is a 
partnership between a social agency 
and two camps, i.e. we have the people 
and the camps have the facilities and 
sensitive staff with skills. In other 
words, we (social agencies and camps) 
can work together to improve the out¬ 
look and well-being of a significant 
group of people who cannot afford, 
either emotionally or financially, to do 
this on their own. 

We would certainly encourage camp 
directors to try out these projects. 
Satisfactions gained will prove well 
worth your efforts. a 



INDIVIDUAL MEAT LOGS 

Vi cup grated Cheddar cheese 
1 lb. ground beef 
3 tblsp. lemon juice 
Vi cup milk 
1 tsp. salt 

1 cup dry bread crumbs 
Vi cup diced green pepper 
3 tblsp. chopped, stuffed olives 
Side bacon 

Mix all ingredients except bacon and 
shape into small rolls — about 3 inches 
long and Wi inches thick. Wrap each 
in a strip of bacon. Cook in frying 
1 pan over the fire or bake in moderately 
i hot oven of 375° for about 45 minutes. 

! Serve with tomato, mushroom or bar- 
! becue sauce. 


BAKED POTATOES 

2 No. 10 tin cans 
Newspaper 
Sand or dirt 

10 medium-sized potatoes 

Scrub potatoes and wrap each one in 
wax paper and then in wet newspaper. 
Using large tin cans and sand or dirt, 
pack the potatoes in so that no potato 
touches the sides of the can or another 
potato. Wet sand or dirt well. Place 
cans directly in the hot coals and 
leave for about 45 minutes, or until 
done. 


TUNA MACARONI SALAD 

1 can (6 to 7 oz.) tuna, drained 
1 cup diced celery 
Vi cup chopped sweet pickle 
3 cups cooked macaroni (shell 
shaped) 

Vi cup mayonnaise 
3 tblsp. French dressing 
Salt and pepper 

Combine all ingredients. Taste and 
add salt and pepper, if desired. Chill 
well. Serve in lettuce cups. Garnish 
with stuffed olives. Serves 6 to 8. 

SKILLET PUDDING 

1 can (1-2/3 cups) evaporated milk 
% cup cocoa 
Vi cup sugar 
3 A cup water 

Graham crackers, cookies, etc. 

Put the first four ingredients in a 
skillet and bring them to a boil, 
stirring constantly. Add 10 or so 
coarsely broken graham crackers; cover 
and cook over low heat for about 
Vi hour, stirring occasionally. Then 
spoon the pudding into dishes. If 
graham crackers are not handy, other 
kinds of cookies can be used, or break¬ 
fast foods such as corn flakes — even 
if they are a bit soggy! This is an easy 
tasty dessert and is a good way to use 
up items that might otherwise be 
thrown away. Serves 6. 



19 









Jocelyn Palm, for the past several years Executive 
Secretary of the Ontario Branch of the Royal Life Sav 
Society, has received the promotion, one richly deserved, to the 
Canadian National Branch as Associate Executive Director. This means 
that, through close association and travel, Jocelyn will provide opportunities for 
the National Office to assist each province. Take a tip from us. .. Jocelyn is a great 
gal to know and if you have a question concerning any aspect of camping, ask her. She’ll 
have the answer for you and, if not, she’ll get it for you! We know because she is a valued member 
of the Editorial Committee and, in this capacity, she has promised to be our liaison across Canada so, if 
you receive a phone call from her, don’t be surprised! Congratulations and all the best in your new venture, Joe! 

One of the key speakers at the fall gathering of the Society of Camp Directors was John Walker of Cornwall, Ontario, 
now studying for a Master’s Degree at York University. He was the recipient of the first Research Award of the Society and 



he based his report on his findings and 
conclusions regarding the matter of 
professionalism and the training of 
Camp Directors. We hear that the 
B.C.C.A. continues to thrive as a strong 
dynamic Association . .. due in part to 
people like Rick Ryan, Dave Campbell 
and Ken Goodwin . . . and, of course, 
the people in camping on the west 
coast always know they can count on 
May Brown for her continued interest 
and support.We wonder if you 
know that, at the time of Tanya Kris- 
man’s tragic death, the B.C.C.A. dedi¬ 
cated a memorial to Tanya. Money 
donations were requested with the 
proviso that something in Tanya’s 
memory at the new site for Camp 
YaWaCa on Salt Spring Island would 
be established. We understand that the 
renovation of the farmhouse, “Skip¬ 
per’s Shack”, cost $5,000. Tanya’s 
daughter, Pat, chose the farmhouse to 
be named for her because they had 
stayed there during building operations 
and had had such happy times. The 
fund is not going well and Camp 
YaWaCa needs the help of camping 
folk across Canada. Tanya did so much 
for the C.C.A. and was one of its 
keenest supporters. Now it’s time for 
all of us in C.C.A. to support some¬ 
thing that Tanya believed whole¬ 
heartedly in . . . Camp YaWaCa. 

A big tip of the hat to Alberta! And 
why? Because of its enthusiastic re¬ 
sponse, spear-headed by the efforts of 
its President, Jan James, to our request 
for articles. Our readers will be the 
richer because they’re excellent and 
will be in forthcoming issues. You 
might be interested to know that for 


this Winter Edition, we have one article 
from B.C., one from Manitoba and the 
rest are from Ontario. Isn’t it time to 
make this magazine a true Canadian 
one? We think so. But how? YOU 
have the answer.^* Hank Roessingh 
is very involved in and excited about 
his new position as the Applications 
Editor for the Canadian Arctic Gas 
Study, a group of 25 companies, in¬ 
cluding the CPR, CNR, Can. Develop¬ 
ment Corp’n, Trans-Canada Pipeline, 
Alberta Gas Trunk and also a number 
of American gas pipeline companies, 
who will, sometime in 1973, ask the 
Canadian Government, through the 
Dept, of Indian and Northern Affairs, 
the National Energy Board, etc., for 
permission to build a gas pipeline from 
Alaska via Canada to Alberta and on 
to Ontario and the Chicago area. Hank 
states that the precautions against pol¬ 
lution and disturbing the environment, 
that they have to take, are almost 
incredible. Tim Easley, in the Dept, 

of Forestry at the Univ. of Fredericton, 
was recently elected President of the 
N.B.C.A. with Dave Goss as Vice- 
President. Rick Gilbert and Debbie 

Rose of the Halifax Y.M.C.A. are two 
new “lights” on the camping scene in 
Nova Scotia and will be helping the 
President,David Boston.'-*' 0 Tony Fry, 
Chairman of the OCA Conference, has 
been appointed Director of Camping 
Services for the Toronto Y.M.C.A. 
We’re sure you’ll be interested in a few 
items about the OCA Conference to be 
held at the Sheraton Four Seasons 
Hotel in downtown Toronto, March 
8th to 10th. The excitement of being 
in entirely new surroundings will be 


nothing compared to the programme 
being offered to camp directors and 
senior personnel. A catch phrase to 
express it all would be “Don’t tell us! 
Show us!” In the past few years, the 
style of the OCA Conference has been 
that of using a session speaker to 
present a topic that would lead into a 
general discussion with those in atten¬ 
dance. The evaluations told us this 
often .resulted in the sharing of ignor¬ 
ance or a certain few monopolizing the 
conversation. BUT not this year... we 
will listen and leave with something 
new and vital because experts on the 
topic are going to tell us about kitchen 
organization and ideas, selection and 
interviewing of staff, promotion and 
public relations, drama, Indian Lore, 
staff training, adventure camping, in¬ 
teresting the older camper, canoe trip¬ 
ping, the camper today, the waterfront, 
outdoor cookery, 10 sure-fire campfire 
stunts, aids to sailors and much more. 
In addition, there will be practical 
demonstrations concerning the making 
of paddles and looms, waterfront 
structuring, archery, arts and crafts, 
orienteering and pottery. And still 
more . . . something new is to be 
offered in the Media Room. You will 
have an opportunity to view copying 
equipment and a Cassette tape recorder 
which you can use to record, for your 
own personal files, contracts, singsongs, 
programme ideas, a ten day menu, etc., 
which will be on display. Sounds very 
intriguing and exciting, doesn’t it? 
Why not circle the date, March 8th- 
10th, on your calendar and plan to 
join us at the Four Seasons. Seems 
like a great idea to us. A 


20 



CHESTNUT CANOE CO. LTD. 

FREDERICTON, N.B. 


OVER 70 YEARS OF SERVICE TO CANADIAN CAMPERS 



WE HAVE A CANOE FOR EVERY PURPOSE 

Over 45 Models to choose from. 


Write to the Chestnut Canoe Co. for Free Literature and Prices 







RICHIUDACA 

Mr. and Mrs. W. J. Babcock, 
193 Richmond St.., 

R Ichmond Hill, On. 




^«c 


I To Our Friends The Advertisers: 


”1 


x As we stand on the threshold of a New Year it is good to pause and express our appreciation to those 
|| whose friendship and pleasant relations we enjoy in the course of business. 

It is our sincere wish that your New Year be a very happy one and will bring you full measure of 
health and prosperity. 

Sincerely, 

The Editorial Committee, 
Canadian Camping Magazine 

ZA H -M* 3 t K AH AXZ AH 


L. 




CANADIAN CAMPING is a 100% Canadian Magazine and is not subsidized in any way. It is supported 
solely by advertisements. The following companies are old friends whose products and services have proven 
their value for many years to Camp Directors. We thank them for their support of our magazine and wish 
them continued success throughout the coming years. 


ATHLETES WEAR CO. LTD. 

J.H. BEATTIE, TORONTO 
BEAVER LUMBER CO. LTD. 

BLACK'S CAMP EQUIPMENT CO. 
BUOY-O-BUOY MARINE EQUIPMENT CO. 
CANA FOAM PRODUCTS LTD. 

CANADIAN KEYES FIBRE CO. LTD. 

CASH'S CANADA LABELS LTD. 

CHESTNUT CANOE CO. LTD. 

CLOVER LEAF BEDDING CO. 

CN A/ASSURANCE 

DOMINION SMALLWARES CO. LTD. 
EVERPURE OF CANADA LTD. 
FEDERATION OF ONTARIO NATURALISTS 
FOODCRAFT LABORATORIES LTD. 
FREEZE-DRY FOODS LTD. 

GIBBONS FOODS LTD. 

S. GUMPERT OF CANADA LTD. 

STANLEY A. GRANT LTD. 

HOBART MFG. CO. LTD. 

JIFFY PRODUCTS INC. 

LANGFORD CANOE CO. 

JOHN LECKIE LTD. 


LEWISCRAFT 
LILY CUPS LTD. 

LYNMAR CRESTS 
MAPLEX 

McKAGUE CHEMICAL CO. LTD. 
NATIONAL GROCERS CO. 

NORTH WEST CANVAS LTD. 

QUAKER OATS OF CANADA 
ROYAL LIFE SAVING SOCIETY 
J.M. SCHNEIDER LTD. 

SELECT FOOD PRODUCTS LTD. 

SEPTO CLEAN 
STAFFORD FOODS LTD. 

STEWART OXYGEN SERVICES LTD. 
STARKMAN CHEMISTS 
SUPERIOR PROPANE LTD. 

TANDY LEATHER CO. OF CANADA LTD. 
TOM TAYLOR CO. 

TREMBLAY CANOES LTD. 

JACK WATSON SPORTING GOODS LTD. 
G.R. WELCH &CO. LTD. 

G.H. WOOD AND CO. LTD. 

WOODS BAG AND CANVAS CO. LTD. 


































