

OFFICIAL PUBLICATION L'ASSOCIATION DES 
OF THE CANADIAN CAMPS DU CANADA - 

CAMPING ASSOCIATION PUBLICATION OFFICIELLE 












./,/ y 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


I would like to compliment you on your Spring 
’84 editorial; you carefully displayed many of 
society’s specific flaws while giving us a wide 
range of examples. 

I agree with the philosopher who identified 
our “central problem” as our lack of being neigh¬ 
bourly- in the spiritual sense of the word - and 
charitable. More often than not, we tend to get 
too wrapped up in ourselves and fail to under¬ 
stand or reach out to our neighbours. Yes, we 
have come a long way, but we also have a very 
long way to go. Finally, I would like to commend 
you on your choice of cover photo. 

Dorothy Nielson 
Toronto, Ontario 

I appreciated your Spring editorial. I have been 
friends for a long time now with someone who 
possesses a disability. I have never really given 
it much thought but recently, I have begun to 
learn of the much deeper feelings that aren’t 
always evident. We often have pleasant and 
good times together but, on occasion, he feels 
moody and depressed and increasingly declines 
invitations to go out. 

He says that, at times, he doesn’t care what 
people think but, deep down, he is sensitive to 
society’s ignorance and society’s reaction to 
him. He would like to see this changed and be 
treated as “normally” as everyone else. 

My friend is a wonderful person but it is a 
shame and a sin when we, in society, treated 
disabled people as if they are freaks to be stared 
at and, in some instances, ridiculed. 

CONTENTS _ 

Summer 1984 


In actuality, your editorial makes me realize 
that it’s not really my friend who has the problem, 
is it? 

Harry Rokkos 
Etobicoke, Ontario 

Camping: The Last Word continued 
information they can get the better. It is my view 
that preparing themselves, their staff, their 
parents, their campers and their physical site is 
really not that difficult. Most camp directors I 
know rise to a challenge. If one continually puts 
up barriers to integration, disabled children will 
continue to be isolated and not have the oppor¬ 
tunity to be equal participating members of their 
community as they grow through their teens to 
adulthood. Camp is an ideal setting fora child to 
be challenged and to grow and camp directors 
must find the courage to breakdown the barriers. 
Resources: 

1) In every province there is an agency working 
with physically disabled children and adults. 
Contact: Canadian Rehabilitation Council for 
the Disabled, 1 Yonge Street, Suite 2110, Toronto, 
Ontario M5E1E8 (416) 862-0340 to obtain name 
and address of the specific agency in your 
province. 

2) Contact: Canadian Association for the Men¬ 
tally Retarded,4700 Keele Street, Kinsmen Build¬ 
ing, Downsview, Ontario M3J 1P3 to obtain 
contact for local chapter or Association. 

3) Local public library may carry a selection of 
books relating specifically to “Special Popula¬ 
tions” or they should be able to order them for 
you. 


4) Colleges or Universities in your area offering 
related courses may have written resources. 
You may be able to use students in these 
courses in your program - perhaps for credit in 
their course. 

5) National Building Code - Supplement #5 - 
National Research Council of Canada, Ottawa, 
Ontario K1A 0R6. 

6) Provincial Building Code-Supplement deal¬ 
ing with accessibility for disabled persons - 
Contact the Provincial Ministry in charge of 
Building Codes. These codes will provide you 
with the proper dimensions and details when 
altering your physical site. 

7) Barrier Free Design Centre, c/o Muscular 
Dystrophy Association of Canada, 357 Bay 
Street, 10th Floor, Toronto, Ontario M5H 2T7 
(416) 364-9079. 

8) Canadian Red Cross - Water Safety Service 
Adapted Aquatics Program contact your local 
office. 

9) Canadian Recreational Canoeing Associa¬ 
tion; A Resource Manual On Canoeing For Dis¬ 
abled People - P.O. Box 500, Hyde Park, Ontario 
N0M 1Z0. 

10) Buscaglia, Leo; The Disabled and Their 
Parents: A Counselling Challenge: New Jersey, 
Charles B. Slack Inc.; 1975, Revised 1983. 

11) Hutchison, Peggy and Lord John; Recreation 
Integration ; Ottawa; Leisureability Publications 
Inc., 1979. 

12) Hale, Gloria ed; Source Book for the Dis¬ 
abled; Random House of Canada Ltd., 1979. 

Vol. 36, No. 2 


5 The Camping Advisor 

by Jay Haddad 

6 United Church Report on Human Sexuality 

by James Taylor 

7 Le Comite des camps depression frangaise 

by Colette Pouliot-Marier 

8 Focus on Pre-Camp: The Camper 

by Catherine Ross 

9 Operation Raleigh Canada 

by John Latimer 

SPECIAL INSERT: CCA Annual 


10 Group Dynamics Exercise 

by John Roberts 

11 Book Review: Outdoor Safety & Survival 

by Michael Kenny 

13 Memorable Quotes: “Blackie” Blackstock 

Foreword by Addle & Harry Ebbs 

14 Kidney Kids Camp Out Overnight 

by David Sands 

19 Camping ... The Last Word 
by Kirsty Griffiths 
1983 Rapport Annuel d'ACC 


Cover Photo: Jay Haddad 


Editorial Policy 

Jay Haddad, Editor 

The ideas expressed in the Editorial are those of 
the Editorial Committee and not necessarily 
those of the Canadian Camping Association/ 
Association des Camps du Canada. The views 
are expressed to provide stimulation and com¬ 
ment We invite you to respond in “Letters to the 
Editor” to Canadian Camping, 1806 Avenue Rd., 
Suite 2, Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1. 


i+ 


Produced with the assistance 
of Fitness Canada 

Government of Canada 
Fitness and Amateur Sport 


Condition physique Canada a prete 
son concours a cette production 

Gouvernement du Canada 
Condition physique et Sport amateur 


Canadian Camping is an official publication of the Canadian Camping Association/Association des 
Camps du Canada. Canadian Camping (ISSN 008-3119) is published quarterly. CCA/ACC member¬ 
ship includes a subscription; non-member subscriptions in Canada $6.00 a year or $15.00- 3 years. 
Send address changes to CCA/ACC, 1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1. 
Material in Canadian Camping may not be reproduced in any form, without written permission of the 
editor. Copyright 1984 Canadian Camping Association/Association des Camps du Canada. 


2 



EDITORIAL 

The Bible Tells Me son 

What does it mean to be Christian? What does it mean to be religious? What 
does it mean to be charitable or spiritual? What is truth? 

All too often today the guise of religion or Christianity is used to justify 
actions which may be hostile, uncharitable or inhumane. And the Bible is 
often cited as our authoritative source to legitimize many irrational attitudes, 
feelingsor behaviours.The disturbing reality is the frequency with which the 
Bible is quoted "out of context”; and the selectivity used in choosing those 
words or passages ONLY which tend to give credence or support to the 
human penchant of disparaging and denigrating others. Sadly too, certain 
Churches have often told its followers WHAT to think- using the Bible as a 
sourcebook - and not HOW to think critically in order to more sensitively 
confront the many moral decisions that will have to be made in one’s 
lifetime. Is the Bible truth? If it is, there are as many versions of truth as there 
are people who read it- not to mention that English versions use language 
which is sometimes in disagreement or contradiction (King James Version, 
The Revised Standard Version, The New English Bible and The New Inter¬ 
national Version). Imagine an original statement, made about 2,000 years 
ago, passed on from person to person or manuscript to manuscript, 
originally in Hebrew and later in Greek, and subjected to INTERPRETATION 
and TRANSLATION. At camp, groups often sit in a circle and play “rumour 
mill” where one person initiates a statement and whispers it to the next 
person who, in turn, whispers it to the next person and so on, until the last 
person repeats his or her version of the original statement; everyone laughs 
uproaringly when the initiator then states the original passage. This 
exercise is used as an important psycho-linguistic tool in helping kids 
understand human weaknesses and limitations in comprehending, inter¬ 
preting and professing truth AS WE PERCEIVE IT. While Christians and 
Jews believe the Bible to be the inspired word of God, God’s followers still 
must be required to think and use their own minds, consciences and wills. It 
is very often less secure to do so, but what an exciting and liberating 
experience in human responsibility! 

There is a trendy temptation today, perhaps due to a lack in education and 
moral reasoning, to attribute an infallibility to a particular mystic, leader, 
sage or guru. Many of these "leaders” preach absolute certainty on matters 
of truth (eg. some television evangelists, Falwell's Moral Majority, fundamen¬ 
talist Muslims, Jehovah’s Witnesses, Mormons, Rev. Sun Myung Moon, etc.) 
and require - no, demand, - that their followers obey their word absolutely, 
often by instilling fear, anxiety and guilt. Their insidious notion of truth or 
certainty leaves no room for faith; it demands, often through coercion, a total 
and blind acceptance and obedience. The use of fear to motivate people is 
no surprise, for it lies at the root of much human misery; fear is the 
underlying cause of war, fear is causing an escalation of nuclear arms, fear 
of the unknown keeps us from accepting those who are different. As the 
Bible aptly says, fear "has torment”; interestingly, one of Jesus’ most charac¬ 
teristic sayings is “fear not” and many times he grieved, asking “How is it 
that ye have no faith?” Jesus taught people not ONLY to worship Him but to 
follow God’s will, to share in and help actualize the Kingdom of God on 
earth. Unfortunately, many Churches find it easier to argue over Jesus' 
doctrines or divinity rather than do what He clearly said we must: love one 
another and establish justice among all the inhabitants of the earth. Jesus’ 
parable of judgement (Matt. 25) includes nothing about a person’s religious 
belief, sexual orientation or political ideology as criteria for God’s accept¬ 
ance or rejection on the last day. The question is: have you done God’s will 
by not closing your hand, even to the unlovable? “Not everyone that saith 
unto me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven, but he that doeth the 
will of my Father who is in heaven.” (Matt. 7:21) 

CONSIDER: 

■ In Iran, Khomeini’s men (mullahs) have executed approximately 30,000 
dissidents who refuse to conform to their beliefs; people who “refuse to 
interpret the Koran in the fashion approved by the mullahs .’’ (TIME, March, 
1984) 

■ In South Africa, where there are more orthodox believers in the dominant 
Protestant Church than in most countries of comparable size, people “who 
attend prayer and Bible meetings and take the Bible to be the inspired, 
inerrant word of God, the worst forms of racism and injustice reign supreme, 
fully supported by selected biblical texts.” (Tom Harpur) 

■ In Ireland, sectarian violence and hatred have not only pitted Catholics 
against Protestants for years but have instilled emotional instability, hatred 
and aggression as a fact of life for children growing up. The reconciliations 
that have occurred are too few and the message of good will is poorly 
communicated. 

■ In the United States, the “battle for racial integration and equality found its 


bitterest opposition in the ‘born-again’ Christians of the so-called Bible 
Belt” (Tom Harpur) 

■ The Middle East has seen Christians in conflict with Muslims, Muslim 
factions warring against each other, Palestinians and Jews against each 
other, and on and on. 

■ In Canada and the U.S., certain religions and sects refuse medical inter¬ 
vention and blood transfusions because of their interpretation of certain 
passages in the Bible; worse, however, is the imposition of this will on 
children who are too young to make informed, rational decisions - 
especially with respect to life and death! 

■ In India, violence between Sikhs and Hindus continues to escalate pre¬ 
dicated on religious factionalization, politics and territory; unfortunately, 
these homeland battles often occur on North American turf. 

How can the camping community help address the deep spiritual needs 
in every individual? As church attendance continues to decline (Gallup Poll 
in 1978 cited Catholic church attendance at 74% - today this figure stands at 
52% and is dropping) Professor Bibby of the University of Lethbridge says 
that “Canada can no longer be considered a Christian country in any 
meaningful way, since only about 40% claim any active Christian commit¬ 
ment - and a good portion of these are highly non-traditional in their 
beliefs." If our leaders cannot communicate faith to the young, the numbers 
of those who share faith will continue to decline. Camps can help through 
awakening in every child a keen sense of critical thinking - an ability to 
question logically and develop higher moral reasoning skills. In a language 
that is comprehensible, relevant to the twentieth century and stimulating, 
chapel talks and bible studies should help elevate a child’s understanding 
of our complex world - not simply instilling fears which legitimize OUR 
belief system! Children need to know that the measure of a spiritual or 
religious person lies in WHAT A PERSON DOES, not in how a person 
preaches. The hallmark of a spiritual person is one who treats others - 
whoever they may be and whatever colour, race, ethnicity, sexual orientation 

- with the respect and dignity every human being deserves. The parable of 
the Good Samaritan was very upsetting in Jesus’ time because people 
hated Samaritans and were taught to "have no dealings” (John 4:9) with 
them. The term had always had a strange and ironic resonance because of 
its inherent contradiction; “good Samaritan” is like the repulsive term “holy 
war”. Jesus defined goodness by the measurement of peoples’ deeds- not 
their words, so the parable of the priest and Levite who kept their robes 
clean and their images respectable by walking on the far side of the road to 
avoid the man who had fallen among thieves is important in that the man 
was helped by the lowly Samaritan. Too many people in the Christian 
community are more concerned with respectable appearances than acting 
with compassion, charity and responsibility. The Bible, as a historical test, is 

- in and of itself - neither good nor bad. The Bible (or Koran, Gita, Tao, 
Hibraic Holy Books etc.) is a vehicle which, if used inappropriately can 
actually justify hate, war, homophobia, rape, incest and child abuse. The 
Bible however, can be used to promote rational, critical thinking in children’s 
minds to facilitate more responsible and compassionate growth to adult¬ 
hood; the many stories, miracles and parables CAN and often DO promote 
moral learning, moral reasoning and higher moral thinking. Many people 
have selectively quoted and interpreted 2,000 year-old biblical passages to 
justify their discomfort with homosexuality; the irony is that many of these 
same people eat shellfish, wear red, eat pork, apply lipstick and refuse to 
cover their heads in Church. You see, it all depends on how the Bible is 
used. One way of helping children learn kindness is by doing kind deeds. 
Help children learn understanding by doing something for others; don’t 
instill fear and create anxiety and guilt by arbitrarily reciting only selected 
passages. The Bible CAN be used to help fill a spiritual void, a meaningless¬ 
ness in life, if only, as leaders, we apply the central themes to our camp 
programmes and measure worth and charity by our behaviour. Condemna¬ 
tion of others is too common, too easily justified and, unfortunately, is a 
boomerang. "At whatever point you judge the other, you are condeming 
yourself” (Rom. 2:1). Of course, loving acceptance is a boomerang also; 
whatever we do to our neighbour, for good or evil, we do to ourselves. Jesus 
feels the human pain of those whose needs we have rejected, people who 
have been put down: “I tell you this: anything you did not do for one of these, 
however humble, you did not do for me.” (Matt. 25:45). Measure a person by 
actions, not words; the measure of worth is in how a person lives not in what 
a person says or how a person preaches. To this end, the Bible can be a 
resource which promotes love, faith and understanding and can alleviate 
human suffering and misery; our energy, through camp programming and 
spirituality should reflect these ideals and values. 


EDITORIAL 

C'est ecrit dans la Bible! 


Etre chr§tien, c’est quoi? Que sigrtifie §tre religieux? Que veulent dire 
charitable ou spirituel? Ou se trouve la v6rit6? 

II est commun de nos jours de s’abriter dentere le paravent de la religion 
ou de la chr6tient6 pour justifier un acte hostile, peu charitable ou inhumain. 
La Bible, cette source de vyrite absolue, sert £ tegitimer une attitude, un 
sentiment ou une conduite peu conformes £ la raison. Ce qui inquire, c’est 
la frequence avec laquelle on cite la Bible “sans raison” pour se disculper et 
le soin avec lequel on choisit les seuls mots ou passages qui ajoutent foi £ 
nos motifs de toujours d£nigrer les autres. II est triste de constater que 
certaines religions dictent £ leurs fidetes QUOI penser en leur servant les 
Merits de la Bible au lieu de leur apprendre COMMENT, appliquer les vrais 
principes moraux dans les multiples experiences qui jalonnent leur vie. La 
Bible dit-elle vrai? Si c’est le cas, on y trouve autant de versions de la vyrite 
que de gens qui la lisent Vous rendez-vous compte? Des choses dites il y a 
2 COO ans, r£p£t£es d’un a I’autre, d’un manuscrit £ un autre, & I'origine en 
Itebreu, pui en grec, soumis parfois aux fantaisies des traducteurs? Pour 
nous distraire au camp, nous formons un cercle et chuchotons une phrase 
& I’oreille du voisin et lui faisons faire le tour. Le dernier dit tout haut de qu’il a 
entendu puis le premier revile ce qu’ytait la phrase au d£but C’est I’hilarity 
totale. Cet exercice sert d’outil psycho-linguistique important pour appren¬ 
dre aux enfants les limites de Pouie et celles de la comprehension et de 
Tinterpretation de la v£rity telle que nous la percevons. Si les juifs et les 
Chretiens veulent croire que la Bible est la Parole de Dieu, ils doivent faire 
appel a leur logique, £ leur conscience et £ leur volonte dans leur interpre¬ 
tation de celle-ci. On se sent trap souvent un insecure £ agir ainsi mais 
quelle experience enrichissante eprouve tout £tre responsable £ le faire, 
quelle liberation! 

On tente aujourd’hui d’attribuer £ un mystique, £ un leader, £ un sage ou £ 
un gourou un caract£re infaillible. C’est peut-etre par manque de raisonne- 
ment ou par manque de connaissances des principes moraux. Nombre de 
ces “leaders” disent precher la v£rit£ absolue, notamment certains 6van- 
gelistes £ la t£l6, les musulmans orthodoxes, les t£moins de J6hovah, les 
mormons et R£v. Sun Myung Moon. Ces illumines exigent que leurs 
disciples ob£issent leur volonte, souvent en insufflant la crainte, I’anxtete ou 
la culpabilite. 

Cette notion fallacieuse de la vyrite laisse peu de place £ la foi; elle exige, 
souvent par force, d’obeir et d’accepter les yeux ferrrtes. La crainte a 
toujours donn£ des ailes aux talons! Elie est £ I’origine de plusieurs mis£res 
de I’homme. Elle est la cause sous-jacente des guerres, elle sert £ la 
proliferation des armes nucteaires, elle est I’ennemi de I’inconnu et nous 
empSche d’accepter ceux qui sont difterents. Selon la Bible la peur 
engendre les tourments. Fait assez curieux, c’est que J6sus a souvent dit: 
“Ne crains pas”. Que de fois J£sus a demand^, chagrin£: “Comment se 
fait-il que vous n’avez pas la foi”? J£sus nous a non seulement enseign£ £ 
I’adorer mais aussi £ faire le volonte de Dieu, £ partager avec les autres et £ 
I’aider £ batir son Royaume sur terre. Malheureusement, de nombreuses 
Eglises trouvent plus facile de prouver la vraie doctrine de J6sus ou sa 
divinite plutot que de faire ce qu’il nous a demands explicitement: “Aimez- 
vous les uns les autres et faites tegner la justice sur terre”. La prabote sur le 
Jugement dernier (Matt. 25) ne prend nullement pour critere les croyances 
religieuses, les pteterences sexuelles ou les id£ologiques politiques. La 
question est la suivante: Avez-vous fait la volonte de Dieu en tendant les 
bras, nrteme aux ind£sirables? “Seigneur! Seigneur! n’entreront pas tous 
dans le Royaume des cieux, mais celui-l£ seul qui fait la volonte de mon 
P£re qui est dans les cieux”. (Matt 7:21). 

Voyons ces faits: 

■ En Iran, les disciples de Khomeni, les mollahs, ont tu£ environ 30 000 
dissidents parce qu’ils refusaient de se conformer £ leurs croyances. Les 
victimes refusaientd’interpr£ter le Koran £ leur mantere! (Time, mars 1984). 

■ En Afrique du Sud, oCi I’Eglise protestante teunit le plus grand nombre de 
fideles par rapport aux pays de nteme importance, s£vit les pires probtemes 
raciaux et tous ces croyants qui vont aux prteres et assistant aux lectures 
bibliques, sont ceux-!£ memes qui encouragent le racisme et font r£gner 
[injustice en s’appuyant sur des textes bibliques (Tom Harpur). 

■ En Irlande, catholiques et protestants se dechirent mutuellement£ cause 
de leurs divisions sectaires. Leur fanatisme fait naitre i’instabilite y motive et 
£guise I’appytit de la haine et de la violence chez les jeunes qui ne voient 
dans se d£r£glement qu’une simple facette de la vie. Les raccommodements 
ont 6t6 trop rares jusqu’ici, le vrai message de Dieu trop peu v£hicul£. (Tom 
Harpur). 

■ Aux Etats-Unis, la lutte pour I’integration raciale et legality des droits 
trouve ses pires oppresseurs chez les partisans du “renouvellement de la 


Foi chrStienne.” (Tom Harpur). 

■ Le Moyen-Orient a 6t£ temoin de querelles intestines entre Chretiens et 
musulmans, entre sectes musulmanes, entre juifs et Palestinians etc. 

■ Au Canada etaux Etats-Unis, certaines religions d£fendent les interven¬ 
tions chirurgicales et les transfusions de sang en prenant£ I’appui certains 
passages de la Bible. Le pire, c’est que ces gens imposent leur volonte £ 
des enfants trop jeunes encore pour decider en tout logique et conscience 
sur des questions de vfe et de mort 

■ En Inde, la violence continue de croitre entre factions religieuses, 
politiques et territoriales chez les Sikhs et les Indous. Malheureusement on 
lave souvent son linge sale en territoire nord-antericain. 

Comment les responsables des camps peuvent-ils s’occuper du besoin 
spirituel de chacun? En 1978 un sondage Gallop r££v£lait que 74% des 
catholiques pratiquaient. Aujourd’hui, ce pourcentage n’est que de 52% et 
les 6glises continuent £ se vider. Selon le professeur Bibby de I’universite 
de Lethbridge, le Canada n’est plus un bastillon de la Foi chr£tienne dans 
son sens significatif, puisqu’environ seulement 40% de la population 
appartient £ I’une des nombreuses confessions chr£tiennes et une bonne 
partie de celle-ci adopte des croyances qui s’dloignent sensiblement des 
conceptions traditionnelles. 

Si nos leaders ne peuvent tepandre la foi chez les jeunes, le nombre de 
ceux qui la possedent va continuer de baisser. Nous pouvons intervenir en 
developpant chez I’enfant I’esprit d’analyse, I’aptitude £ raisonner et £ 
questionner intelligemment. Pr£sent£s dans un langage simple, vivant, et 
bien de notre stecle, la cath£ch£se et les textes bibliques devraient aider 
I’enfant £ mieux comprendre la complexity de notre monde et dissiper les 
craintes sur lesquelles se fondent souvent nos croyances. Les enfants ont 
besoin de savoir que la spirituality et la dyvotion se mesurent au geste que 
pose tout £tre humain, non £ ses sermons. Le respect des autres, sans 
ygards £ la race, £ la couleur, £ I’ethnie ou £ la pteterence sexuelle, est 
Itetendard de la spirituality. La parabole du bon Samaritain choquait au 
temps de jysus car les gens detestaient les Samaritains. “Les Juifs en effet, 
n’ont pas de relations avec les Samaritains” (Jean 4:9). Le terme a une 
raisonnance ironique £ cause de la contradiction qu’il renferme. Le “bon 
Samaritain.” C’est tout comme la “Guerre sainte.” Jesus mesurait la bonty 
des gens £ leurs actes, non pas £ leurs paroles. Aussi, la parabole du pretre 
et du tevite a-t-elle son importance. En effet, ceux-ci ont marchy £ I’interieur 
de la route pour garder leur robe et leur honorabilite sans t£che au lieu de 
preter secours au pauvre homme qui se faisait faire les poches. C’est 
I’humble Samaritain qui I’a aide. 

Que de chr£tiens attachent trop d’importance £ ce que sont apparences 
respectables et oublient de faire acte de misericorde. La Bible, en tant que 
texte historique, n’est ni bonne ni mauvaise. Or, la Bible, le Koran, le Gita, le 
Tao etc, vehiculent des ktees qui, mal interpretees, peuvent actuellement 
favoriser la haine, la guerre, le viol, I’inceste et Tabus des enfants. La Bible 
peut cependant servir £ d£velopper I’esprit d'analyse chez les enfants et en 
faire des adultes meilleurs et plus responsables. Les nombreuses histoires, 
les miracles et les paraboles peuvent en fait enseigner comment penser 
correctement et dyvelopper une conscience morale. 

Plusieurs ont soigneusement city et interpryty des passages de la Bible, 
vieux de 2 000 ans, pour justifier leurs malaises vis-£-vis des homosexuels! 
Chose curieuse, ces mimes gens mangent du pore ou des coquillages, 
portent du rouge et refusent de se couvrir la tete £ I’yglise. Vous voyez? Tout 
depend de notre interpolation de la Bible. 

Enseignez aux enfants la gentillesse en posant des gestes gentils. 
Apprenez-leur £ faire quelque chose pour les autres. N’insufftez ni crainte 
ni anxtete nl culpability en citant quelques passages arbitraires. La Bible 
peut servir £ combler un vide dans rime, £ redonner un sens £ la vie, 
seulement si nous pouvons en tant que leaders, mettre en pratique les 
principaux th£mes de nos programmes et en joignant I’acte £ la parole. II est 
trop courant de nos jours de condamner les autres ou de se trouver des 
raisons de le faire. C’est un vyritable boomerang. “O homme qui quetu sois, 
toi qui juge, tu est inexcusable, tu te condamne toi-rTteme”. (Rom 2:1) Bien 
entendu, aimer est aussi un boomerang. Ce que nous faisons £ notre 
prochain, c’est £ nous que nous le faisons. J£sus ressent les souffrances de 
ceux que nous rejetons; de ceux que nous rabaissons. “Je vous le dit en 
verity, toutes les fois que vous n’avez pas fait ces choses £ I’un de ces plus 
petits, c’est £ moi que vous les avez faites” (Matt. 25:45). Jugez les autres par 
leurs actes; non par leurs paroles. La valeur d’une personne r£side dans ce 
qu’elle fait, non dans ce qu’elle dit ou ce qu’elle pr£che. A cette fin, la Bible 
peut servir de v£hicule £ I’amour, £ la foi, £ I’ententement et elle peut 
soulager les misaires et les souffrances humaines au lieu d’en §tre souvent 
la cause! 



CAMPING ADVISOR 


Over the course of two summers working as a 
camp counsellor, I have found that I sleep much 
more soundly at camp compared to the city. 
Some friends of mine have experienced the 
same thing; is there a known reason for this? 

S.B., Halifax, Nova Scotia 

There are probably several reasons for this 
phenomenon; current theory relating to our 
body’s bio-rhythms holds that it may well be a 
“negative ion effect”. Negative ions are freely 
abundant in our natural environment: beside 
lakes, on campsites and especially near water¬ 
falls. Our natural bio-rhythms seem to ebb and 
flow best within negative ion environments; 
cities with concrete, steel and flourescent lights 
abounding have an abundance of positive ions. 
Some experts say this accounts for our dis¬ 
rupted sleep patterns in the city and our “sound” 
sleeps at camp. Many people in the city actually 
purchase negative ionizers for precisely sleep 
reasons. 

Secondly, we expend tremendous physical 
energy at camp - much more so than in the city. 
It’s quite obvious and natural, then, that our 
bodies NEED more recuperation time at camp 
and therefore, because we are tired from so 
much activity, we sleep easier and more soundly 
at camp. 

Thirdly, when we alter our diet and our regular 
routine we necessarily alter our biological func¬ 
tions which include sleep. Diet has been shown 
to have a profound effect on sleep patterns. 

★ ★ ★ 


What is the most watched spectator sport in 
North America? 

J.B., Edmonton, Alberta 

Baseball! The 37th annual attendance figures 
have just become available and baseball has 
surpassed horse-racing as the number 1 spec¬ 
tator sport in North America; horse-racing has 
been first in annual attendance of major events 
for the last 31 years! In 1983, baseball attracted 
over 78 million spectators compared with 75 
million for horse-racing. What about hockey, 
you ask? Hockey was at the very bottom with 
only 20 million fans in 1983 - even greyhound 
racing was more popular! 


In discussing rainy-day programming with 
camp staff, we wondered: can one catch a cold 
from the rain? 

A.V., Harrow, Ontario 

There’s actually a medical institute in Great 
Britain solely examining and attempting to 
isolate causal factors of the “common cold". 
Their answer: no, one cannot catch a cold from 
being wet! They have actually had experimental 
subjects walk at length, without clothes, in the 
rain with no effects at all associated with colds. 
Actually, we’ve heard that some camps practice 
this same procedure! 


At a recent conference, you stated that Dr. 
William Masters said that “homosexuality is a 
natural expression”. How can it be natural when 
it seems obvious that males and females “fit” 
together with procreation as our motive and the 
result of the male-female union? 

M.L. Willowdale, Ontario 

In the first place, many homosexuals can and 
often DO exercise their procreative feelings and 
conceive (female) or impregnate (male); further¬ 
more, many heterosexuals either choose not to 
procreate or cannot bear offspring and this fact 
shouldn’t undermine their sexuality, sexual 
orientation or sense of maleness and female¬ 
ness. People shouldn’t be made to feel guilty 
over choosing NOT to have children; very few 
professionals in medicine, psychology or psy¬ 
chiatry would call procreation an “instinct", (as a 
matter of fact, scientific studies show that 
“mothering" is not even an instinct but “parent¬ 
ing" is, meaning that males and females can 
learn to elicit responses we generally associate 
with “mothering"). Also, given the fact that many 
people say that “procreative sex is natural", why 
is it that 99.9% of sexual activity in North 
America is RECREATIVE, not PROCREATIVE? 
As leaders, we have to speak more openly on 
responsibility and contraception, hoping that 
people will enjoy their sexual expressions with¬ 
out the added burden of V.D. or unwanted preg¬ 
nancy; in 1982 in Toronto, there were 8,033 live 
births ... and 8,166 abortions! Somehow we're 
not doing our job as leaders and educators in 
preaching the ethics of respect and respon¬ 
sibility! 

With respect to what is natural, I would say 
that what is natural is what feels “right and com¬ 
fortable ” for you at any given time - provided it is 
predicated on honesty and consent and does 
not violate the criminal code. You see, to a gay 
person, same-sex attraction is both normal AND 
natural; to a heterosexual, for example, such an 
attraction is foreign and therefore “unnatural”. A 
gay person would see our opposite-sex attrac¬ 
tions as different, foreign and therefore “unnat¬ 
ural” to him or her. I guess we're fortunate to be 
in the majority and enjoy and take for granted 
the media representation - television, books, 
movies, magazines, romance stories, socializa¬ 
tion - which concentrates and focuses on 
heterosexual relationships with all the inherent 
joys and hardships. There’s nothing really wrong 
with that except that we tend to oppress and put 
down those whose attractions are different from 
ours and this is unfortunate, disrespectful and 
unacceptable! The same was true, years ago, of 
society never portraying black-white relation¬ 
ships in any meaningful way; the situation is 
rapidly changing but there certainly is still a 
need for more genuine representation; we must 
learn to keep in mind that “different" does not 
mean “wrong"or “bad”; it simply means “not the 
same" 

Years ago, people believed in a philosophy 
called the Doctrine of Signatures (some actually 
still do) which dictated that “shape determines 


function". As silly as it may sound, people 
believed that cauliflower was good for the brain 
because it resembled a brain; we obviously 
know a great deal more today! And people like¬ 
wise believed that because a penis and vagina 
“fit", it is therefore a “natural function" If, for 
argument’s sake, it was suggested that the 
shape of a penis also fits in a hand, or a jar, or a 
mouth ... at what point does “natural" become 
“unnatural”? This was the essence of Dr. William 
Master’s thesis; it’s important to remember that 
what is natural is what is natural FOR EACH 
INDIVIDUAL, providing no one is being hurt, the 
law is not violated and the behaviour is con¬ 
sensual! 


* ★ ★ 

Thank you for your letters. We regret that we 
cannot answer each one personally; however, 
we will endeavour to publish the most interest¬ 
ing and provocative ones. Address all letters to: 
The Camping Advisor, c/o The Editor, Canadian 
Camping, 1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, Toronto, 
Ontario M5M 3Z1. 



5 


Glen Bernard Camp 




The Report to the 30 th General Council on 

Human Sexuality 

Summarized by James Taylor 


In August, the 30th General Council of The 
United Church of Canada will receive a report 
on human sexuality. While the report itself will 
not be distributed before formally presented to 
the General Council for consideration, this un¬ 
official summary has been prepared for mem¬ 
bers of the United Church so that they may be 
informed about the Report. 

It needs to be understood that this report is 
part of a continuing discussion. It is not a final 
statement, nor a retouching of previous docu¬ 
ments. It is a new document seeking to assist 
church members in the continual struggle to 
discover what it means to be a follower of Christ 
in today’s world - a world in which sexuality 
pervades all aspects of life, while understanding 
of sexual roles and responsibilities keeps 
changing. 

An Overview of the Report 
In essence, three themes run through the 
report 

1. Sexual drives and feelings affect everyone. 
They are not an optional extra which can be 
arbitrarily separated from Christian life. 

2. It is what we do about those drives and 
feelings that matters. There is a recurring em¬ 
phasis on the need to make responsible deci¬ 
sions. 

3. The model for those decisions comes from 
Christian faith- based on scriptural understand¬ 
ing and our relationship with God. 

Those themes are explored in five chapters. 
To facilitate study and discussion, each chapter 
works with four elements: 

□ as objective as possible a description of the 
present situation; 

□ a selection of real-life stories illustrating the 
dilemmas; 

□ an exploration of insights from relevant scrip¬ 
ture passages; 

□ affirmations, offered as general guidelines or 
markers for behaviour. 

The summaries that follow cover only some of 
these elements in each chapter. 

Sexuality and Selfhood 
This chapter defines why the United Church 
should be studying sexuality at all. 

Sexuality pervades everything in present life. 
Like the colour of one's eyes, it is an integral part 
of being human. We cannot choose whether or 
not to have sexual feelings - the choice is what 
we will do with the feelings we have. 

Yet attitudes towards sexuality vary widely. 
How we think and talk about maleness or 
femaleness affects our behaviour and relation¬ 
ships, and the kind of persons and society we 
become. 

Similarly, ways of expressing sexuality vary. 
The traditional expression has been in marriage. 
However, sexuality within marriage is not avail¬ 
able to all. Some choose not to be married; some 
have marriages end in divorce or death; every¬ 


one is single for part of life, at least in the 
adolescent years. What happens to sexuality in 
those situations? 

Biblically, sexuality can be seen as a gift from 
God. 

But the Bible also recognizes that sexuality 
can be a dilemma, a gift contaminated by sin. Yet 
though no one is immune to its potentially des¬ 
tructive forces, God’s grace can transform the 
dilemma into a promise, a relationship which 
reflects the convenant relationship we have 
with God. 

Marriage 

Within the church today, two attitudes toward 
marriage seem to predominate. On the one 
hand, faced by increasing statistics of marriage 
breakdown and divorce, some people call for 
firm directions. Others suffering in oppressive 
marriages, hurt by divorce or the death of a 
spouse, or who can no longer accept traditional 
roles, call for more compassion, understanding 
and flexibility. 

In that setting, the church can make an impor¬ 
tant contribution, in a renewed understanding of 
the meaning of Covenant. 

That concept of Covenant is founded on our 
relationship with God. It involves the total 
person; it is not always voluntarily chosen; it 
demands unconditional faithfulness; it is de¬ 
pendable. We can never fully earn nor deserve 
the relationship; in return, it must never become 
self-serving, but must turn us outwards to 
others. 

While there can be many kinds of relation¬ 
ships between persons, in marriage these 
aspects of the closeness of a Covenant relation¬ 
ship with God are worked out in daily life. 
Intimacy 

Perhaps of all the chapters, this one is most 
likely to be misunderstood. For intimacy here 
does not mean sexual intercourse. Rather, in¬ 
timacy is the sense of closeness that one can 
have with another person. Like sexuality, it is a 
universal desire. Unfortunately, also like sexual¬ 
ity, it may be abused or distorted. 

Intimacy is more than sex or marriage, though 
intimacy may be a goal of both of those. The 
birth of a child, the death of a loved one, can also 
be incredibly intimate moments when barriers 
come down between people. Similarly, there is 
intimacy in counselling and in friendship. 

Surprisingly, to some, the Bible encourages 
intimacy. God is revealed as one who is deter¬ 
mined to have an intimate relationship with a 
chosen people. Jesus with his disciples, Mary 
with God, David and Johnathan, Ruth and 
Naomi - all offer models of intimacy for Chris¬ 
tians. 

The search for intimacy, therefore, is also # a 
spiritual journey. It is dangerous, because it 
holds a potential for being hurt and for hurting 
others, and perhaps for needing to change. In it 


is also the potential for increasing maturity. 

The chapter suggests that the Christian 
Church has not dealt well with intimacy. Fearing 
the dangers, it has largely ignored the values 
that can accompany intimacy. For example, the 
last General Council, in 1982, expressed con¬ 
cern about “situations of emotional intimacy 
leading to potential genital expression.” Taken 
literally, that would exclude the natural and 
growing intimacy that should develop during 
courting before marriage. 

How should the church respond to a single 
adult’s need for that sense of intimacy which is 
the opposite of alienation? How should an 
adolescent struggling towards self-identity learn 
about intimacy? What about a 50 year old who 
loses the intimacy of 25 years of happy marriage 
when a spouse dies? In none of these instances 
does intimacy necessarily mean sexual inter¬ 
course. Yet these very real needs have often 
been overlooked. 

Sexism 

If sexuality can be positive and creative, 
sexism is the other side of the coin. This chapter 
describes sexism as a destructive force in 
which the ideals of a Covenant relationship are 
distorted into inequality and exploitation. 

The chapter stresses particularly ways in 
which sexism becomes so integrated into social 
structures that it often goes unnoticed as it 
undermines people’s behaviour. 

As with other matters related to sexuality, 
sexism results in varied reactions within the 
church. 

Some are apathetic. They don’t understand 
why others are upset, nor do they see what it has 
to do with them. 

Some are anxious. They recognize that some¬ 
thing is happening, and they fear that changes 
are coming which will affect them. 

Some are antagonistic. They see the kinds of 
changes that are being demanded. Consciously 
or unconsciously, they also see these changes 
as a threat to their present power, influence, or 
position. They resist. 

Some are active. Having seen sexism as a 
subtle and insidious force affecting all of their 
lives, over which they have no control, a force 
which contributes to pornography, prostitution, 
rape, wife battering, sex in advertising, and 
media exploitation of women, they devote their 
energies to denouncing and combatting sexism. 

While the church has, in recent years, become 
more aware of sexist attitudes, it is not free of 
them. From the congregational level to the 
national offices, women continue to be under¬ 
represented in decision-making roles. 

Sexual Orientation 

Because of the traditional disapproval towards 
homosexuality, few heterosexual people even 
realize that they may know homosexual men 
and women personally. 


6 



The reaction to homosexuality, as to sexism, 
is often fear and anger. Christians may charitably 
avoid expelling homosexual persons from their 
congregations, but they continue to treat them 
as persons needing either repentence or cure. 

Homosexual persons resent accusations of 
promiscuity and child molesting, pointing out 
that these offences are far more often committed 
by heterosexuals. 

This chapter neither censures nor promotes 
homosexuality. It calls for more open discussion, 
more study of the origins and nature of homo¬ 
sexuality, and particularly more study of the 
Scriptures together, with the aims of increasing 
mutual understanding, and dispelling some 
fears. It sees the result of such study not as a 
loosening of sexual standards, but as a deepen¬ 
ing. 

An appendix examines those scripture pas¬ 
sages commonly identified with homosexuality. 
The chapter itself deliberately chooses for study 
a passage from Acts 10 that does not deal with 
homosexuality as such, but rather as a means of 
discerning basic principles about the ways in 
which the church has learned to deal with per¬ 
sons excluded from Christian fellowship. 

Affirmations Recommended 

In approving the Report for presentation to 
General Council, the Division of Mission in 
Canada endorsed a series of affirmations as the 
basis for “general guidelines for use in the 
United Church of Canada.” 

These included, on “Sexuality and Selfhood": 

• that “sexuality is a gift from God ... a primary 
way of relating to ourselves and to one another 
... the way that God has chosen to continue the 
human race.” 

• that “the giving and receiving of affection... is 
a basic human need.” 

• that “even in the midst of ambiguity, we are 
called upon to make responsible decisions” 

On “Marriage”: 

• that in marriage, “Christians make a covenant 
with one another and with God” and that "in 


Christian marriage a man and woman give them¬ 
selves to each other in the full intention of a 
lifelong commitment." 

• that “sexual intercourse in marriage is in¬ 
tended to be... exclusive.” 

• but also that “there are many couples in 
committed relationships other than marriage to 
whom the church is called to minister in love.” 

On “Intimacy”: 

• that “all people experience a hunger for inti¬ 
macy" and that "it is in our experience of the 
intimate God that we find the grace and possi¬ 
bility of intimacy with one another." 

• in intimate relationships, “the importance ... 
of respecting the integrity of others, of setting 
limits on our actions.” 

• that singleness and/or celibacy may be “a 
state in which people may find intimacy and 
fulfilment." 

On “Sexism”: 

• that “the intention of God for all persons is full 
equality in both our personal and social lives." 

• that “God calls us as a church to eliminate all 
forms of sexism... in the life and worship of the 
congregations, presbyteries, conferences and 
national structures of The United Church of 
Canada." 

• that the “structuring of society can be re¬ 
deemed and eventually transformed through the 
grace of God and the struggles of those willing 
to face... sexism.” 

On “Sexual Orientation”: 

• that “all believers in Christ are accepted as 
full members of the Christian church regardless 
of their sexual orientation.” 

• that the church is “called to initiate and 
encourage communication and discussion with 
homosexual believers about sexuality in order 
thatfellowship may be increased and misunder¬ 
standing, fears and hostilities lessened." 

This report has been published under the au¬ 
thority of General Council Executive. Reprinted 
with permission of the office of the General 
Council of The United Church of Canada. 


LE COMITE 
DES CAMPS 
^EXPRESSION 
FRANCAISE 

par: Colette Pouliot-Marier, 
Presidente du comite 

Le 22 avril dernier, je faisais part a la presi¬ 
dente de I’Association, Mme Jocelyn Palm, que 
j’acceptais de succeder a Mile Pauline Rondeau, 
directrice du Camp Claret, au poste de presi¬ 
dente du comite des camps depression 
frangaise. 

Qu’il me soit permis de rappeler que ce 
comite qui a 6te mis sur pied a I’automne 1974 a 
pour but d’assurer une presence active des 
camps francophones et de faire entendre le 
point de vue des camps de langue frangaise au 
sein de (’Association. 

Certes, depuis les dix dernieres annees des 
efforts ont 6te accomplis afin de repondre aux 
besoins des camps frangais et aussi pour 
rejoindre les membres francophones. Parrrii les 
actions mises de I’avant, rappelons, entre autres, 
le congres du printemps 1976 qui a teuni des 
directeurs de camps de vacances et personnes 
interessees au phtenorrtene des camps, venus 
de toutes les provinces, autour du thteme de 
“L’activite pedagogique du camp de vacances”. 
De cette rencontre bien des membres ont main- 
tenu des contacts avec des personnes dont ils 
avaient fait la connaissance lors de cette grande 
reunion des camps francophones du Canada. 

A la veille de I’annee internationale de la 
jeunesse, le comite des camps depression 
frangais est encore un moyen mis a la disposi¬ 
tion des membres pour assurer 1) la communi¬ 
cation entre les camps le langue frangaise au 
Canada, et 2) la presence des camps depres¬ 
sion frangaise a cote de ceux depression 
anglaise au niveau national. C’est dans cette 
perspective que j’ai accepts de presider ce 
comite. De fait, c’est dans le respect des tradi¬ 
tions et aspirations des deux communautes 
linguistiques du Canada. A I’instar des person¬ 
nes qui ont oeuvte b I’implantation de ce comite 
et de celles qui ont contribue a son maintien, je 
tenterai de poursuivre le travail qu’ils ont 
amorce. 

Par ailleurs, le comite qui demeure le lien 
entre les camps d’expression frangaise et le 
conseil d’administration souhaite recevoir les 
suggestions des membres francophones, tant 
du Quebec que des autres provinces. Je dirais 
meme que c'est n6cessaire. Identifier les be¬ 
soins actuels des camps de langue frangaise 
exige la collaboration de tous les interesses. 



Focus on Pre-Camp: The Camper! 

by: Catherine Ross, Camp Mi-A-Kon-Da 



Camp Mi-A-Kon-Da 


Pre-Camp ’83 was progressing much the same 
as any other pre-camp week. The entire staff 
was busily occupied making the most of the few 
days before the campers’ arrival. Linda, the 
programme director, was finalizing lists, menus 
and destinations for the staff overnight excur¬ 
sion to review their canoeing and camping 
skills. The nurse was compiling her list of 
campers currently on medication. In the kitchen, 
‘Cookie’ was checking deliveries and experi¬ 
menting with new recipes. The tripper was 
selecting his tripping canoes and checking his 
equipment. Former staff were careful to include 
new counsellors in their conversations while 
the new counsellors were seeking answers to 
the dozens of questions about traditions and 
procedures. Each evening the section heads 
met briefly to review the day’s progress and plan 
the next day’s programme. Nothing must be 
overlooked. We must find time for the waterfront 
search pattern, a fire drill, an evening pro¬ 
gramme planning session, writing up progress 
books, familiarizing counsellors with their new 
campers and preparing welcome signs to greet 
each tent group. 

A Letter for Pause and Reflection 

Amidst this hive of activity a letter arrived. 
Hurrying to the dining room in response to the 
five minute warning bell, I tore it open and 
glanced at the contents. The words brought me 
to a halt on the path and I began to reread it more 
carefully. The letter was from a lifetime friend, 
Linda, whose eight year old daughter was due to 
arrive at our front dock in a few days for her first 
residential camping experience. I had watched 
Jennifer, the youngest of three and only daugh¬ 
ter, grow from infancy to girlhood - her parents’ 
pride and joy. Linda had decided to share with 
me her thoughts and concerns as she prepared 
to send Jennifer to camp and away from the 
security and protection of their loving home for 
the very first time. 

On reading the letter, my first reaction was 
one of humility and apprehension. ‘How dare I 
presume to accept such an awesome respon¬ 
sibility?’ But I quickly remembered that I was not 
carrying this burden alone. It is one that I share 
with a caring and competent staff. As my confi¬ 
dence and ego resurfaced I thought - we are 
accepting a grave responsibility presuming to 
care for the physical, emotional and spiritual 
well-being of each camper, but what a privilege 
to influence and shape the lives of these eager 
young people. In a final effort on the last night of 
pre-camp to put all our preparations into per¬ 
spective, I shared Linda’s letter with my staff. Let 
me share the letter with you. 

'You and I go back a lot of years. We have been 
campers and counsellors together and shared 
the burden on a portage. I feel now I can share 
some of my ‘first year mother’ anxieties with you. 

I know it will be helpful for me if you know them, 
and perhaps might be helpful for you in antici¬ 


pating and understanding some of the thoughts 
that I m sure are not unique only to this mother. 

There is still time to prepare Jennifer well 
physically. Her clothes will be plentiful, clean 
and well labelled. Her flashlight will have new 
batteries - the best, so as not to burn out.Her 
notepaper will include stamped, addressed 
envelopes home! Knowing I have time to do this 
with her before she leaves pleases me and 
makes me feel useful. 

There is not enough time left forme to prepare 
her well emotionally. Then again - maybe she is 
- maybe I’m not! I wonder about such motherly 
things as: who will understand when she has 
trouble sleeping at night that an extra hug and 
kiss will soon bring pleasant dreams? Who will 
understand how to deal with her shattered 
world if she receives a rebuff from her peers or 
idolized counsellor? Who will give her the much 
needed and cherished praise fora job well done 
or new challenge met? Who will be able to deter¬ 
mine if a hurt is really physical or a cry for 
emotional uplifting? For the next two weeks, 
who will nourish and mother her if I am not 


there? These next two weeks will change and 
mould her as no other two weeks in her life! I 
truly believe the who will be you and your hand¬ 
picked staff. 

Her brothers keep telling me Jennifer is lucky 
to be going to camp. We think of you and wish 
you well each summer - that goes double this 
year! 

P.S. Jennifer’s never written a letter. Please help! 

Each camper is a special person to his 
parents and family. In his time at camp it is our 
responsibility to continue the nurturing and 
development of these beloved children. We can 
do this by attending to each child individually, 
listening to him and sharing with him at some 
point ineach day, whether he demands it or not, 
some of our time. By doing so we show him that 
we care and we reinforce his positive self 
image. Let us commit ourselves to do our very 
best for all the Jennifers and Johnnys now 
packing their suitcases, excited and a little 
apprehensive, as they dream of their first holiday 
at camp. 


8 




OPERATION 

RALEIGH 

CANADA 

For young men and women across Canada, 
between the ages of 17 and 23, there is an 
exciting venture taking place throughout the 
next four years, involving adventure, travel and 
an opportunity to do something for others! 

Operation Raleigh is a 15-phase operation 
(three to four months each), spanning a total 
period of four years, and made possible through 
the co-operation of more than 30 countries. In 
all, over 4,500 young people will take part, and of 
this number 100 will be chosen from Canada. 

The program which involves exciting scienti¬ 
fic, conservation and community programs on 
land and sea, will provide many opportunities for 
the young to overcome problems, seek new 
challenges, and develop their talents. In short, 
they will be encouraged to discover leadership. 

Each phase of the trip will include 200 ven¬ 
turers representing participants from all of the 
countries involved. It begins in November 1984, 
when the specially equipped Flagship sets sail 
from Merseyside, bound for North Carolina. 
Upon arrival in the United States, Operation 
Raleigh will take part in the celebrations of the 
founding of English speaking America 400 years 
ago. Accompanied by vessels and sailing ships 
from participating nations, the flagship will then 
sail to the Caribbean, Central and South Amer¬ 
ica, Antarctica, Australia, New Zealand, Oceania, 
Asia and Africa on its voyage of scientific dis¬ 
covery and human achievement. 

The majority of all expenses for Canadian 
participants will be funded directly by the Oper¬ 
ation Raleigh Foundation, but each participant 
will be asked to raise through local sponsors, 
and supporters, 1 /3 of the cost which amounts 
to about $2,000.00. (Total cost $6,000.00) 

Under the patronage, and very keen interest 
of H.R.H., the Prince of Wales (Prince Charles), 
Operation Raleigh is seeking young people who 
have determination, energy, common sense, 
adaptibility, maturity and physical endurance. 
The selection procedures culminate in an eval¬ 
uation weekend at one of three locations in 
Canada. These will be held each year to select, 
and prepare the participants for one of the 15 
phases over the next four years. 

John Latimer of CCA has been invited to 
become a member of the Board of Directors of 
Operation Raleigh Canada, and is therefore 
anxious to inform readers of CANADIAN CAMP¬ 



ING of this exciting venture. If more information 
is desired, as well as applications, write: Opera¬ 
tion Raleigh Canada, The Weston Centre, 22 St. 
Clair Avenue East, Toronto M4T 2S3. 


NATIONAL 


Nicholas Joseph 


LIFEGUARD 

SERVICE 

CERTIFICATION 

by: Kelly Lendsay, NLS Chairman 

NLS is the lifeguard training course of the 
Royal Life Saving Society Canada. Other awards 
of the Society, such as the Bronze Medallion 
and Bronze Cross, are designed to educate in 
life saving. The distinction between life saving 
and lifeguarding is important. 

The aim of the Royal Life is to make “Every 
Swimmer a Life Saver”. With water rescue and 
resuscitation skills, life savers can provide im¬ 
mediate assistance to someone in trouble. Life 
saving skills are all applicable to an informal 
situation where the activity is recreational and 
may be unstructured such as that at a cottage. 
Out of the broadly based group of life savers, 
come those who aspire to be lifeguards. 

The RLSSC defines a lifeguard as a person 
who is responsible for a given area and/or 
aquatic activity. Potential lifeguards must have 
life saving skills and knowledge. The RLSSC 
Bronze Cross and minimum 16 years are the 
prerequisites to the National Lifeguard Service 
course. The NLS Course is offered in three 
options: pool, waterfront or surf. 

Camps will discover that staff with this certifi¬ 
cation are invaluable in the encouragement of 
appropriate behaviour in the aquatic environ¬ 
ment. NLS lifeguards can also provide further 


in-service training to those on your staff who 
hold life saving awards and have yet to acquire 
the extra skills and knowledge of a certified 
lifeguard. 

NLS courses are offered through RLSSC 
programs across Canada. Summer camps who 
wish to offer the NLS program to staff and 16 
year old campers have two choices. The camp 
has on staff an NLS Instructor who teaches the 
40 hour course in blocks of time when partici¬ 
pants are available. This is ideal as camp 
recreational swims and camp facilities offer 
endless opportunities for practical experience. 
The second choice, would be to import an NLS 
Instructor who would offer the course prior to 
the arrival of campers, as a part of pre-camp 
training. Perhaps a third choice is to encourage 
the staff to take the pool option at their local pool. 
While some of the material will be specifically 
oriented to lifeguarding and supervision in a 
pool, most of the material is appropriate to all 
applications. The camp waterfront director 
should review the specific material that applies 
to your particular camp waterfront once the staff 
are at the camp. 

The NLS course includes: lifeguarding skills 
and techniques, maintenance of the pool or 
beach (depending upon the option chosen), 
public relations, search procedures, aquatic 
emergency care, program administration, legal 
aspects and government regulations. 

Information concerning the availability of NLS 
courses may be obtained from your provincial 
Branch of the RLSSC. 


9 


CROUP DYNAMICS EXERCISE 
Responding to those "Difficult" questions 

By: John Roberts 


Handbooks for Camp Counsellors provide a 
wide variety of answers on countless numbers 
of questions asked by campers, or posed as a 
result of behavioural differences. But there are 
very few books on the Camp Director’s shelf 
which provide answers for Counsellors when 
asked questions of a personal or value judge¬ 
ment nature. How do Counsellors cope with 
very sensitive questions about sex, drugs, 
morals, religions? 

In pre-camp, Directors and staff spend con¬ 
siderable time discussing swimming, archery, 
fire emergencies, campfire programs, canoe trip 
safety, the stars, bedtime procedures, discipline 
problems and story-telling. But in many camps, 
very little time is given to helping the Counsellor 
learn ‘how to handle’ questions which, although 
very important to campers, are better left ‘un¬ 
touched’. There are some publishers who feel 
that reference to sexual or moral attitudes are 
too personal, or judgemental, and should there¬ 
fore not be discussed for fear of losing sales. 

But time should be spent in pre-camp ... and 
Counsellors should be encouraged to express 
their feelings and values as to how to respond to 
very natural questions from growing and easily- 
influenced young people. 

Camp leaders might consider this exercise 
for use prior to camp, or at specially called 
meetings during the summer with Counsellors 
and Leaders-in-Training. 

1. Initially indicate to the group that the purpose 
of this exercise is to give the staff an oppor¬ 
tunity to verbalize their views as to how 
certain personal questions and problems can 
best be handled within their own group of 
campers. At the same time, the staff will be 
encouraged to express their own personal 
views on each of the topics, after the 'experts’ 
have provided what they feel to be the ‘model’ 
answer. 


2. The staff and/or L.I.T. group is divided into 
sub-groups of three or four. 

3. Each sub-group is given a four-question 
topic (see some examples below). Allow 15- 
20 minutes for each group to arrive at a 
consensus answer for each of the four parts 
of the question. The question is repeated 
(along with the conditions), and a spokes¬ 
person from the sub-groups gives the ‘model’ 
answer. 

4. After the response has been given for each 
topic, the audience is then encouraged to 
question the respondants (the “experts”) as 
to the appropriateness of their answers. 

5. Should the Camp Director have philosophical 
differences with the answers, these should 
also be expressed at the time, or in summary 
following the discussion on each topic. 

The following are some suggested TOPICS 

and examples. If used, they should be pre¬ 
written on the four cards to be given to each 
sub-group. 

The TOPIC (or question) should be written at 
the top of each of the four cards. The balance of 
material on each card varies according to age of 
the camper, and attitudes or practices of the 
Counsellor. 

Topic - Capital Punishment. 

Is Capital Punishment right? 

Card 1 - From a 9 year old to a Counsellor who 
strongly believes in Capital Punishment. 

Card 2 - From a 9 year old to a Counsellor who 
is firmly opposed to Capital Punishment. 

Card 3- From a 15 year old to a Counsellor who 
strongly believes in Capital Punishment. 

Card 4 - From a 15 year old to a Counsellor who 
is firmly opposed to Capital Punishment. 

Topic - God. 

Is there a God? 


Card 1 - From a 9 year old to a Counsellor who 
firmly believes in the existence of God. 

Card 2 - From a 9 year old to a Counsellor who 
has some serious doubts about the existence of 
God. 

Card 3- From a 15yearold to a Counsellor who 
firmly believes in the existence of God. 

Card 4 - From a 15 year old to a Counsellor who 
firmly denies the existence of God. 

Topic - Virginity. 

Are you a Virgin? 

Card 1 - From a 9 year old to a Counsellor who 
is a virgin, but wonders to himself if he’s 
“normal”. 

Card 2 - From a 9 year old to a Counsellor who 
is not a virgin, and whose sexual encounters 
have only been for physical enjoyment, with no 
love or feeling involved. 

Card 3- From a 15 year old to a Counsellor who 
has not had sexual intercourse and does not 
believe in it before marriage. 

Card 4- From a 15 year old to a Counsellor who 
has engaged in sexual intercourse with his girl¬ 
friend who he loves. 

Topic - Masturbation. 

Is Masturbation wrong? 

Card 1 - From a 12 year old to a Counsellor who 
masturbates occasionally and feels very guilty. 
Card 2 - From a 12 year old to a Counsellor who 
is not uncomfortable with the fact that he 
masturbates. 

Card 3- From a 15 or 16 year old camper or L.I.T. 
to a Counsellor who feels masturbation is sinful 
and wrong. 

Card 4- From a 15 or 16 year old camper or L.I.T. 
to a Counsellor who has no feelings of guilt, and 
is comfortable with his own sexuality in mastur¬ 
bating. 

Topic - Abortion. 



10 



CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 
ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU CANADA 



ANNUAL REPORT 
1983 

RAPPORT ANNUEL 


PRESIDENTS REPORT 

Lots of camping activity during the past year and this is reflected in 
the projects, conferences, programs and workshops of the Provin¬ 
cial Associations. Congratulations to each Provincial President and 
the Boards and Committees who carry out the various activities. 
Taken altogether, we have to be ethusiastic about the Canadian 
perspective in camping. 

The CCA Board and Committees have also had a busy year. I 
urge you to read these reports and I know you will be pleased to 
learn more concerning: 

■ Plans for CC A’s 50th Anniversary in 1986 from Cliff Labbett, Past 
President of CCA 

■ Special projects for 1985 International Year of Youth from Hugh 
Phillips of Edmonton 

■ CCA Involvement in the 1987 International Congress in Washing¬ 
ton from our representative, Janet Adamson, Toronto 

■ Ongoing work of the Education Committee, chaired by Dorothy 
Walter, Toronto 

■ The strides in Publicity and Promotion led by Chairman, Marnie 
Ellis of Montreal 

■ Successes of the Publications Committee under the able leader¬ 
ship of Wendy Wren and Judy Richards, Toronto 

■ The response to “Canadian Camping” is evidence of the work of 
the indefatigable Jay Haddad, Toronto 

■ Barry Lowes, Chairman of the Immigration Task Force who 
developed and has maintained excellent working relationships 
with the Canada Employment and Immigration Commission 

■ Bruno Morawetz of Peterborough, chairs the Archives Commit¬ 
tee and watches over our past history which is maintained at 
Trent University 

■ Leadership Development projects have been held in several 
provinces and you’ll get specifics from Paul Potter, Chairman 

■ The Environment Committee is functioning with Jean Funk of 
Edmonton at the helm 

■ Standards Chairman Brian Law of Winnipeg will advise of his 
work over the past year. 

And, of course our three hard working Vice Presidents, George 
Matthews (East), Ken Willis (Central) and Terry Burkhalter (West) 
have each communicated to their respective Provincial Associations 
and are acknowledged. Ken replaced Louis Jean who resigned after 
accepting a position with ACQ. Thank you George Ross, Treasurer 
for your work, advice and contributions. One of the unsung heroes 
of CCA is Jan James, CCA Secretary. While most of Jan’s work is 
evidenced in the Minutes, she also makes valuable contributions to 
many areas of CCA operations. 

We are grateful to the Camping Association of Nova Scotia for 
hosting and sharing in this 1984 Annual Meeting and Conference. 
This opportunity to meet with others has also been enjoyed during 
1983-84 in British Columbia, Alberta, Ontario and Newfoundland; 
thank you all for your warm welcomes to CCA delegations. 

Fitness Canada have provided invaluable funding opportunities 
and we are appreciative of this support. We recognize that our 
unique organization would be limited significantly without these 
contributions. Thank you Shirl Willette and your Ministry. 

Marjorie Booth, our Executive Director has the challenge to 
weave all CCA volunteers and their projects into a workable whole. 
Thank you for your cheerfulness Marj in the face of the demands 
made of you. 

Thanks to each of you who work to make camping in Canada 
more widely known and available to Canadians. 


EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR S REPORT 

The applause from the International Camping Congress had almost 
died down when 1983-84 began last April. Nevertheless, the 
Canadian Camping Association/Association des camps du Canada 
had already geared up for our next major effort, National Camping 
Day on April 14th. 

Marnie Ellis and her capable team of provincial volunteers carried 
out their respective tasks to begin the difficult job of achieving public 
awareness of Camp Counsellors and organized camping. Following 
this first effort, Marnie determined the plans for the next National 
Camping Day - March 21st, 1984. The Board were informed in 
October and the provincial PR volunteers were asked to follow the 
promotion plan used and developed for April 1983. 

Publications continue to be a significant effort of the Association. 
The loyal volunteers, Wendy Wren and Judy Richards continue the 
task of maintaining an accurate inventory of books as well as mailing 
out the orders across the country. The highlight of this year was our 
newest publication the Counsellor-in-Training Manual. This publica¬ 
tion was produced in two versions, an instructor’s manual for CIT 
Directors and a “Workbook” version for the CIT’s themselves. Sales 
have been extremely good since we required a second printing by 
June 30th! The volunteers who contributed this manuscript deserve 
our congratulations. 

Terry Burkhalter, our Western Vice President, did an effective job 
as Executive Workshop Task Force Chairman. This CCA/ACC 
Workshop, held at Bolton Camp in October, was our first in-depth 
executive training for provincial presidents and vice presidents since 
1976. The major recommendation from this event is to continue this 
type of training in the future. 

Three opportunities for my professional development were 
provided by the Association in 1983/84. In May, I was able to spend a 
week at the American Camping Association Headquarters in 
Bradford Woods, Indiana. The week provided new insight into 
potential development areas for a national camping association. I 
was indeed fortunate to spend time with virtually all the ACA 
executive staff. 

In early June, I completed the 2nd year of the Canadian Institute 
of Organization Management at the University of Western Ontario. 
The theme of this course was “Management Dynamics” and dealt 
with effective motivational techniques for volunteers. 

The Association also allowed me to attend the American 
Camping Association National Convention in San Diego in February. 
These experiences all serve to expand my knowledge and under¬ 
standing of environment within the Association. 

The part-time staff of the Association has undergone some 
change during this year. Mary Roy left the CC A/ACC in September 
after eight years of loyal service. Our typist, Sharon Freedman, also 
resigned during the fall prior to the birth of her second child. Thank 
you both for your hard work and continuing interest in the camping 
movement. 

We were fortunate to recruit Irene Knapp as our new Secretary/ 
Bookkeeper in October. Irene has settled into this rather unique role 
very well - adapting to the various demands with great enthusiasm. 
Thank you Irene for your tremendous support and interest. 

Next year could be called “Great Expectations”! With Interna¬ 
tional Youth Year beginning in 1985, we have plans for three special 
events: a Youth Camp Director Institute in January, a special IYY 
edition of Canadian Camping in Spring and a special celebratory day 
program at all CCA/ACC Member Camps in August. 

The CCA/ACC will hold another Promotions Workshop for 
provincial delegates in October to finalize our publicity plans for 
1984-85. 


Jocelyn Palm 


Fitness Canada continues to provide more than financial assis¬ 
tance. The consultant for much of 1983/84, Mr. Shirl Willette, has 
supported our efforts enthusiastically throughout the year. 

The CCA/ACC is more than meetings, minutes and mailings - it 
is MEMBERS. As I participated in events across Canada this year I 
am grateful for the interest, excitement and commitment of the 
leaders of the camping movement. We have much to be proud of 
due in no small part to the outstanding efforts of our national 
volunteer Executive, Board and Chairmen. Thank you for your 
dedication - it is my pleasure to work with all of you. 

Marjorie Booth 


NEWFOUNDLAND & LABRADOR 

During our 1983 AGM it was announced by Newfoundland’s 
Minister of Culture, Recreation and Youth that the NLCA was to be 
granted office space at the Provincial Recreation Centre, Torbay. It 
is there that most other youth, recreation and sport association 
offices are housed. Hopefully this will provide us more opportunities 
to promote our association as well as a home for our operations and 
resources. 

We have experienced a substantial turnover in our Bord of 
Directors this year with the addition of six new members. This 
includes Judy May of Comer Brook, our west coast director which 
is a position that we have had difficulty in filling over the past several 
years. Over the past year many of us have had to make adjustments 
in order to become acquainted with the NLCA. To this end our 
Executive have been reviewing terms of reference and constitution 
items in order to involve more people in our activities. Our focus will 
be to strengthen committees and to make our association a truly 
provincial one. 

Through the diligent efforts of Barb Taylor we have produced an 
up-to-date directory which is available through our provincial office. 

Our secretary, Levi Hehaney and his wife attended the American 
Camping Association Conference in San Diego in February. They 
were very enthusiastic about the activities and sessions which they 
attended, and, as usual were disappointed that there was not 
enough time to attend more sessions. Such conferences help to 
charge up our commitment to the camping movement and serve to 
remind us of the great impact we can have on youth. Levi was also 
instrumental in arranging for Grant Kerr, President of OCA, to 
attend our meeting of March 29 where he provided us with some 
information on the operations in other provinces. We found his talk 
quite interesting as he touched on many of the issues which NLCA is 
facing. It is interesting to observe that many of our associations have 
similar problems. 

Myself and Janice Stroud, a new board member, attended the 
CCA Executive Development Workshop at Bolton Camp, Ontario, 
in October. We both found the course very beneficial and it allowed 
us to become more familiar with scope and range of CCA. 

We are now preparing for our Annual Meeting and Spring Work¬ 
shop which will be attended by Marjorie Booth and Dorothy Walter. 
Following our AGM we will be offering our counsellor leadership 
course on the last weekend of May at Rotary Sunshine Camp. 

A proposal has also been forwarded to Employment and Immigra¬ 
tion Canada for funding of a summer project which would supple¬ 
ment our visitation and provincial visibility efforts. We hope to reach 
more camps with this project in an effort to have a clearer picture of 
camping in Newfoundland & Labrador. 

Wallace Gregory 


NOVA SCOTIA 

The Association received an intern under the Summer Canada 
Employment Program during the summer of 1983. Being accepted 
into this program automatically makes us eligible for a staff person 
for the summer of 1984 and 1985. 

By having this person on staff, we were able to develop two 
training programs for camp counsellors; one at Camp Hilles on the 
Mainland and one at Camp Aite Breagh on Cape Breton Island. Both 
were well attended and very successful. 

In addition, several training programs for individual camps were 
carried out by the intern for Association Members. 

In cooperation with Canoe Nova Scotia, the Association put 
together and published a new book entitled “Canoe Routes for Nova 
Scotia”. This was placed on sale in the summer of 1983 and we look 
forward to this book increasing our income over the next few years. 

One of the results of having a staff person working with the 
Association was the increase in book sales for our Association and 
for the Canadian Camping Association. Books were available at all 
Association events and at individual camps when the camps were 
visited. We will carry out the same format in the summer of 1984. 

In December we were pleased to have the President of CCA with 
us for our bi-annual meeting and dinner. Jocelyn carried greetings 
from CCA and was the main speaker of the evening. 

All in all it was a successful year with planning already underway 
for the CCA Board meeting in May/84. A major event will be staged 
at the Nova Scotia Agricultural College from May 4th to the 6th. 

George Matthews 


NEW BRUNSWICK 

The year 1983 has been both a productive but trying year for those 
involved with the New Brunswick Camping Association. As presi¬ 
dent it is certainly a pleasure to report that the Board of Directors 
provided the membership with the largest calendar of events ever 
offered and in doing so were able to maintain a stable financial 
position without the support of traditional government grants from 
the Department of Youth and Recreation. 

Highlights of the year included: 

• five development workshops for camp staff and outdoor educa¬ 
tors including - Counsellor/Director Weekend, Canoe Instructor 
School, Winter Outdoor Skills Institute, Fall Weekend, and 
Camp Committee Workshop. We are indebted to CCA for 
providing funding for Consultant/Advisors for two of these 
events. 

• the recognition of three individuals, two camps and one agency 
through our newly created awards program designed to honour 
the volunteers who have made significant contributions to 
camping in New Brunswick. 

• a new format and improved quality of our quarterly bulletin 
“Camping News”. 

• the launching of a membership campaign. 

• the granting of a charitable tax number that has allowed for a 
major fund-raising program to begin. 

The above noted highlights combined with the routine duties of 
our six ongoing committees provided for a stable base and positive 
year for those involved with NBCA. 

One of the most difficult tasks the Board of Directors had to 
contend with was the association’s financial position. The sudden 
loss of government grants from the Department of Youth and 
Recreation due to provincial budqet restraint left the association in 



a fragile financial position, however, through careful planning and 
corporate support the association ended the year with a small 
operating surplus. 

Other minor problems occurred throughout the year, however, 
the positive happenings certainly out numbered the setbacks and 
the year can certainly be termed a success. 

Thanks are extended to the many individuals who have contri¬ 
buted to the continued growth of NBCA. Your efforts are not 
unnoticed as without this volunteer commitment our association 
would not be the healthy, progressive organization it currently is. 

Ian R. Fowler 


QUEBEC 

Les activity de I’ACQ, cette ann£e, ont ajust^es aux besoins des 
membres. Un questionnaire a £t£ envoys & Pautomne, pour 
connaitre les besoins des camps et les services qu’ils attendent de 
leur Association. Des joum^es th£matiques sur “La gestion par 
informatique”, “Les nouveaux jeux”, et “La place des parents au 
camp” ont retenu Pint£r£t de plusieurs membres. La Semaine des 
Camps du 23 au 28 avril sera la principal activity de promotion au 
printemps. Un projet special, en collaboration avec le Minist&re du 
Loisir, de la chasse et de la p£che, nous permettra d’avoir un 
“message radio” durant cette semaine. 

Au Quebec, la Loi de la protection du consommateur a fait Pobjet 
de plusieurs rencontres avec differents intervenants afin d’obtenir 
une exemption pour les camps de vacances. 

Claire Menard 


ONTARIO 

Throughout 1983, we celebrated the 50th Anniversary of the 
Ontario Camping Association. It was a year marked with a number 
of excellent Association events including a creative 50th Anniversary 
Party/Annual Meeting in the Spring; a very successful Counsellor 
Conference (1000 registrants); an involved summer of camp visita¬ 
tions (some 70 camps visited); the production of a great new OCA 
History - to be available to all. It was a year-long celebration. 

The OCA with its 200 camp members, 300 individual members 
and some 50 commercial members continues to provide quality 
camping experiences for children, youth and adults. The Board and 
Executive have worked well and several administrative changes 
were introduced. A major task currently underway is the purchase 
of computer equipment for our Office. And the Committees, and 
Task Forces of the Association offered a variety of workshops and 
seminars - all of which were well attended. 

A new film was commissioned and will be used for educatiorV 
promotion throughout the Province. Our Legislation Task Force 
continues to monitor changes in Government policy that will affect 
camps. And new attempts in regional development have been 
implemented to increase the awareness and visibility of the OCA 
across the entire Province. 


MANITOBA 

The year of 1983 is gone but has provided an even stronger base for 
the Manitoba Camping Association. We are particularly pleased by 
the improved participation of members - individuals, camps and 
organizations. As the value and need of the MCA becomes more 
known, we anticipate further participation. 

There are several events that merit specific comment. I will try to 
do these chronologically. 

First of all, it was terrific in January, 1983, to have 20 Manitobans 
travel to the CCA International Congress in Toronto. Manitobans 
gained a lot and gave a lot to this event. Special mention goes to 
Brian Law, who chairs the National Standards Committee. 

In early May, the MCA had the pleasure of hosting the CCA 
Board. In conjunction with their visit, Marg Law put together a 
terrific conference that saw 100 camping folks involved. The quality 
of the sessions was high as was the enthusiasm of the participants. A 
special treat was, Don Starkell relating his super canoe trip from 
Winnipeg to South America. He well illustrated the saying, “Life is an 
adventure or nothing at all”. 

The MCA Sunshine Fund had another fantastic year. The 
Winnipeg Free Press ran weekly articles on camping and kids. The 
people of Manitoba were generous in their support of the Sunshine 
Fund. Over $50,000 was raised with about 300 kids helped in going to 
camp. Kathy Taylor, as chairperson of the Sunshine Fund, did an 
excellent job. Bettie Heindl admirably handled the operation of the 
fund. Together, the MCA had a team that made *83 the best year in 
all aspects for the Sunshine Fund. Look out *84! 

The summer, as always was a busy time for camps. Modest 
increases were reported across the province. Visitations were made 
by the MCA for Standards Association. Terry Burkhalter was in 
charge of this with strong support from Bettie Heindl and the 
volunteer visitors. Terry is also the Western Vice-President of the 
CCA. 

September saw the MCA Board meet for a day to project plans 
and programs for the coming year. It was a helpful time as each 
member had an opportunity to express their concerns and dreams 
for the association. At the end of the day, there was a spirit of 
optimism for the MCA and its mandate. 

In closing, I would like to express gratitude to the many people 
who have made the MCA a strong voice for camping in Manitoba. 
One way this voice is heard is through our excellent newsletter, the 
Manitoba Camping Scene, edited by Cliff Derksen. Thank you to 
Bettie Heindl, who gives us strong support in the office. And, finally 
thank you to Marc Bruyere and the Manitoba government for their 
support of the MCA. We look to *84 for another strong year of 
camps and camping in Manitoba. The MCA wilt be a significant 
factor in making that happen. 

Bryan Hill 


SASKATCHEWAN 

For Saskatchewan our attentions have been focused on two aspects 
of work. First is the completion of our “Directory of Camps” for the 
province. Secondly we have been working on an exemption from 
the “minimum wage” legislation in the province. 


For the Directory of Camps, many hours have been put into the 
compiling of names and research to find camps in the province. In 
some cases camps are of very small duration and seemed to be 
hesitant of what the association could do for them. The SCA 
launched this project to the public as a co-ordinated effort with 
National Camping Day, March 21st. The Directory seems to be well 
received, having many requests to fill. 

Our second and most ambitious project was the application to the 
Provincial Government for an exemption under the Labour Stand¬ 
ards Act from “minimum wage” guidelines and hours of work. A big 
thanks goes to Marj Booth who prepared the brief, National office 
for the hours of research and to the other provinces who offered 
their support and assistance in compiling information. We are very 
appreciative of this solidarity shown by camping people across the 
country. I think a message is clear as to the strength and quality of 
camping in Canada. For Saskatchewan at least this means survival 
to the camps. Hopefully the camps not in the association at present 
will realize the value of their provincial association and the national 
federation. 

Other events for the year also included a conference on standards 
and accreditation of camps. Our entire system was revamped and 
updated, a job that will have positive effects for camping in 
Saskatchewan. The sessions held March 31st, in Saskatoon were 
very productive. Most of the camps that are presently accredited are 
due for renewal this summer. 

Saskatchewan, however, is still struggling along. We are trying to 
grow and share with our members a better camping scene, better 
resources, better leadership and a sense of pride in being a 
“Camping person”. 

David Godwin 


ALBERTA 

The Board of Directors held five meetings between the 1983 and 
1984 conference dates. The executive also gathered at other times 
for special tasks. 

A completely revised constitution was drafted and ratified by your 
Board for presentation and voting at this year’s AGM. Exemption 
from the Labour Legislation Act for camp counsellors on minimum 
wage and overtime pay was achieved. This will hopefully be 
maintained on a yearly basis with the Department of Labour. 

Programs and Leadership - Three regional workshops were 
held in addition to the annual conference. Over one hundred and 
twenty (120) participants and twenty-three (23) volunteer leaders 
contributed to the great success of these events. 

Four newsletters were published on a new format. The high 
quality of the newsletter has been well received by the membership. 

Committee Projects and Area Reps - In addition to the 
Education and Communication Committees, Standards, Member¬ 
ship, Conference, Research and Development were all active in their 
respective areas. A tremendous amount of volunteer time and effort 
has gone into these various committees enabling the Association to 
function smoothly and accomplish the myriad of tasks necessary for 
our advancement. 

The Area Reps who have the difficult task of keeping in touch with 
all the camps at the local level and who are the “representatives at 
large” for the Association continued to keep a follow-up on member 
camps in their areas, assist with camp visitations and sit on other 
standing committees. 


Thank-You’s - On behalf of the Board of Directors, I would like 
to thank the Outdoor Recreation Section of the Provincial Recrea¬ 
tion and Parks Department for their continued financial and moral 
support. A special thanks as well to Marjorie Booth, Executive 
Director of the Canadian Camping Association for her continued 
support and liaison with our Provincial Association. 

I would also like to thank the Board of Directors for their 
dedication and support over the past year. It is the strength of this 
fine group of volunteers that makes our Association the fine one it is. 

Michael Kenny 


BRITISH COLUMBIA 

The highlight of our activities inB.C. was our annual conference held 
at Camp Squamish March 16-18. The CCA Executive were able to 
schedule a meeting here to coincide with the conference, so we were 
able to draw on their skills and experience for a number of 
workshops. Our special guest was Jay Haddad, who did not only a 
really effective workshop entitled “Sexual Values and Attitudes in 
Camping”, but also brought his audio-visual presentation “The 
Universal Child”. It was a delight to have Jay with us for the weekend 
and a chance for many of us to tell him directly our appreciation of 
his efforts as editor of “Canadian Camping”. 

The consensus of opinion, I think was that this was the best 
conference we have had in some time and we are starting now to 
plan for next year. 

In other areas, a considerable amount of work has been done this 
year to re-evaluate our camp standards document and streamline 
procedures. This was much needed and a revised version should be 
ready for this summer. 

The other important developing in B.C. this year has been the 
creation of a regional section of BCCA on Vancouver Island. We 
have long felt the need for regional sections in this province and now 
the first concrete steps in this direction have been taken. 

David Adair 


CCA/ACC NATIONAL STATISTICS 



1980 

1981 

1982 

1983 


Summer 

Summer 

Summer 

Summer 

Total Camp Members 

590 

597 

618 

616 

Accredited Member Camps 

N/A 

553 

500 

523 

Non-Accredited Member Camps 

N/A 

44 

118 

93 

Day Camps 

126 

125 

69 

50 

Resident Camps 

453 

468 

543 

471 

Extended Season Camps 

N/A 

(71) 

190 

191 

Camper/Beds 

64,276 

74,762 

71,182 

82,047 

Camper/Days 

3,962,848 

4,046,388 

6,103,253 

3,173,474 

Individual Campers Registered 

N/A 

N/A 

293,941 

320,819 

Foreign Campers 

9,790 

9,130 

4,904 

11,188 

Foreign Campers/Days 

1,503,268 

185,609 

119,158 

176,303 

Volunteer Staff 

18,405 

12,247 

15,038 

15,933 

Paid Staff 

19,282 

20,539 

20,080 

38,592 

Staff/Days 

1,125,676 

1,151,255 

1,293,264 

1,291,744 

Foreign Staff 

1,076 

1,268 

1,163 

1,466 

Staff/Students 

18,787 

16,784 

18,211 

18,469 

$ Food 

11,454,000 

12,607,000 

12,923,000 

14,160,117 

$ Wages 

17,279,000 

19,448,000 

21,153,000 

23,128,656 

$ Foreign Wages 

557,968 

524,331 

415,897 

435,073 

$ Foreign Camper Fees 

3,125,000 

3,500,940 

2,853,965 

4,501,059 


ITEM 

CCA/ACC STATISTICS 1983 

NFLD. N.S. N.B. QUE ONT. 

-SUMMER 

MAN. SASK. 

ALTA. 

B.C. 

TOTAL 

L ASSOCIATION: 

Member Camp - Total 

15 

51 

37 

117 

205 

32 

15 

82 

62 

616 

Member Camp - Accredited 

— 

51 

— 

117 

198 

17 

11 

67 

62 

523 

Member Camp - Non-Accredited 

15 

— 

'37 

— 

7 

15 

4 

15 

— 

93 

Day Camp 

2 

2 

1 

5 

29 

5 

4 

N/R 

2 

50 

Resident Camp 

13 

49 

33 

103 

176 

26 

11 

N/R 

60 

471 

Other 

— 

— 

3 

9 

— 

1 

— 

— 

— 

13 

4 Season 

6 

4 

4 

50 

12 

8 

4 

18 

11 

117 

3 Season 

— 

4 

9 

18 

21 

6 

4 

5 

7 

74 

D. CAMPERS: 

Camper Beds (Capacity) 

989 

3,541 

3,492 

16,568 

31,233 

3,400 

2,589 

13,272 

6,963 

82,047 

Individual Campers Registered 

6,486 

28,074 

9,778 

75,768 

108,709 

14,804 

11326 

35,144 

30,830 

320,819 

Camper/Days 

49,847 

304,694 

48,894 

790,595 

1,332353 

164,142 

75,816 

5,403 

401,730 

3,173,474 

Foreign Campers 

— 

49 

10 

239 

3,958 

218 

32 

62 

6,620 

11,188 

Foreign Camper/Days 

— 

463 

48 

8,129 

117,065 

1,450 

206 

662 

48380 

176,303 

ID. STAFF: 

Volunteer Staff 

597 

1,394 

1,411 

1,395 

3,044 

936 

717 

3,646 

2,793 

15,933 

Paid Staff 

103 

646 

755 

3,788 

10,565 

726 

389 

1,331 

947 

38,592 

Staff/Days 

5,083 

63,194 

83,647 

256,336 

550,202 

60,146 

21363 

148,023 

102,550 

1391,744 

Foreign Staff 

— 

11 

1 

12 

807 

100 

7 

18 

510 

1,466 

Staff/Students 

131 

820 

1,297 

3,544 

8,479 

806 

258 

1,436 

1,698 

18,469 

IV. FINANCE: 

$ Food 

104,580 

427,300 

217,000 

3,285,885 

6,721,449 

737,136 

364,151 

888,746 

1,413,870 

14,160,117 

$ Wages 

90,041 

730,134 

484,210 

4,894,456 

10,805368 

1,705,664 

606312 

2,466,713 

1,345,958 

23,128,656 

$ Foreign Staff Wages 

— 

4,000 

— 

16,007 

390,133 

6,000 

— 

— 

18,933 

435,073 

$ Foreign Camper Fees 


1,675 

855 

101,254 

3,074,165 

N/R 

15,300 

13,487 

1,294,323 

4,501,059 

% Return/Province 

87% 

35% 

76% 

41% 

57% 

50% 

100% 

39% 

40% 



50th ANNIVERSARY TASK FORCE 

1983 has been a busy year commencing with the highly successful 
International Congress jointly sponsored by CCA and OCA for this 
first ever function. Having been President of CCA when this 
concept was first established and working through its very difficult 
birth, it was very satisfying to see it come to fruition under a very 
capable and hard working committee. 

I have been given the responsibility of the initial planning of 
suitable activities to mark CCA’s 50th anniversary in 1986. Since 
contact has been made with many of the CCA Past Presidents and 
current provincial executives for ideas their response has been 
good. Since definite plans are not yet formulated the following ideas 
will be the basis of our anniversary celebrations: 

1. Kite flying across Canada. 

2. Be a part of the annual July 1st celebrations in Ottawa. 

3. Tie in with National Camping Day and sponsorship be private 
industry in a salute to Children’s Camping across Canada. 

4. Official recognition from UNESCO for camping’s contribution 
to protection of our environment. 

5. Across Canada campfires. 

Clifford Labbett 


ARCHIVES COMMITTEE 

The most important action has been the “brown bag” approach to 
the collection of Archival materials. Each Provincial Association was 
sent a large brown envelope marked “Archives” under which are 
listed the kinds of materials that should be saved and placed in the 
envelope for mailing at a later date when the envelope is about to 
burst. 

It seems essential that each President encourage his Archives 
Chairman to be alert to the necessity of collecting materials which 
would be of interest to later generations or to students doing 
research on camping for his province. 

Archivist Bemadine Dodge, Trent University, Peterborough, 
Ontario, K9J 7B8, will always be happy to receive materials of this 
kind, and it is hoped that each Association will diligently collect 
Archival material from its own members. 

Bruno Morawetz, Ph.D. 


EDUCATION COMMITTEE 

This report reflects action and progress made toward having the 
“Curriculum for Camp Directors” a viable resource. The curriculum 
is seen as an incentive for those who wish to pursue knowledge at a 
self-directed pace. The committee is addressing that issue. 

The content of the curriculum, having been confirmed by the 
provincial representatives last year, meant that the committee 
needed to turn its attention to resources, guidelines and methods for 
assessing individual progress toward the goal of professionalism. 

The document has now been put on word processing and we are 
investigating the “packaging” of it. In a survey to provincial 
associations, we now have an indication of what topics can be 
implemented provincially and what becomes a national responsi¬ 
bility. This is seen as assisting the planning of learning events on both 


levels. Since September, the focus of committee work has been to 
develop a bibliography; write guidelines for the use of the curriculum 
and in accompanying form to assist individuals to document their 
progress in covering the topics. Compiling of supportive resources 
has become a task for the committee. 

Our research indicated that video taping was too costly a venture 
therefore we are encouraging the Education Committee in each 
province to tape sessions at conferences and workshops to help 
increase major resources. We will be developing guidelines. 

“Director Education” is a challenging assignment and action plan 
for the near future is to (a) support the development of learning at a 
national level and (b) to encourage provincial initiative. 

I continue to praise the members of this committee who work with 
diligence and insight. Our progress is significant. My sincere 
appreciation is extended publicly to Stan Talesnick, John Wilkinson, 
Marjorie Booth and Jan James our Board liaison person. 

Dorothy Walter, Chairman 


ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE 

October 1983 saw a fresh start for the Environment Committee. The 
following projects have been initiated: 

• revised Action Plan for the committee 

• submission of news items for the CCA/ACC Newsletter, or for 
provincial newsletters 

• review of current Environment Canada information 

• recommendation that the CCA develop an ongoing liaison with 
the National Trail Association 

• initiated correspondence with several forestry industries to 
determine what materials are available for CCA camps to use 

• reviewed the proposed Energy Camp; recommended that the 
CCA pursue a joint venture with the Terry Fox Centre in 
Ottawa 

• drafted the “CCA Environmental Ethic” 

I am looking forward to the development of environmental 
guidelines for campsite management, and the acceptance of the 
“CCA Environmental Ethic” in 1984. 

A special thanks go to Jan James, Executive Liaison, and to 
Marjorie Booth, Executive Director for their ongoing support. 

Jean Funk 


EXECUTIVE WORKSHOP 
TASK FORCE 

As reported in the 1982/83 CCA/ACC Annual Report our Task 
Force scheduled a Volunteer Executive Development Workshop at 
Bolton Camp and Conference Centre near Toronto, October 13-15, 
1983. The workshop addressed the following problem areas: 

• short term planning 

• decision-making (concerns, etc.) with volunteer boards 

• organizational development 

• problemsolving 

Arnold Cohen, Winnipeg, was the workshop leader/facilitator for 
our group. Our group consisted of two people from each province 
where possible along with the CCA/ACC elected executive. 



After summarizing the results of a questionnaire sent to partici¬ 
pants ahead of time, the following issues of leadership and manag¬ 
erial styles were highlighted: 

• decision-making 

• problemsolving 

• conflict resolution 

• communication 

• teamwork skills 

• planning 

As a tool, Cohen used the book, The New Managerial Grid (by 
Robert R. Blake and Jane S. Mouton, Gulf Publishing, 1978) to lead 
us through an intense experiential process. 

The intent of the workshop was to increase the participant’s skills 
in Effective Management Techniques . The premise for this workshop 
was that if we could improve the managerial abilities of association 
leaders, they would be more effective in their various leadership 
roles at the provincial national levels. 

Results of the workshop were tested immediately by participants 
who were involved in the 24-hour CCA/ACC Board of Directors 
meeting. During this meeting, the communication and planning 
activities of several members had changed significantly from 
previous meetings. 

Officially this task force has completed its responsibility according 
to the CCA/ACC ACTION PLAN. In the evaluation questionnaire, 
several persons encouraged a continuation of an executive develop¬ 
ment workshop every two years for the purpose of getting to know 
each other better, (particularly in lieu of changing representatives 
and personnel on the Board of Directors) and to constructively look 
at the issues of leadership and managerial styles as listed above. 

As the outgoing chairman of this Task Force, I will be recommend¬ 
ing to the Board of Directors an ongoing plan to continue working 
toward benefits that were an integral part of our October 1983 
experience. 

Terry Burkhalter 


FRENCH LANGUAGE COMMITTEE 

During the past year, the Editor of Canadian Camping continued the 
practice of producing the Editorial in both official languages. 
Additional efforts were made to include other articles in French and 
English. 

The Public Relations and Promotion Committee also improved 
the National Camping Day information for use in francophone 
communities in Canada. 

Pauline Rondeau resigned as Chairman at the end of this year due 
to severe time restraints. We look forward to welcoming the new 
Chairman of the French Language Committee, Colette Pouliot- 
Marier to the next Board Meeting. Colette plans to continue with the 
tasks of generating articles in French for Canadian Camping and 
establishing priorities and procedures for translation. 


Ken Willis 


FOREIGN CAMP COUNSELLORS 
(CCDO 2333-126) 


NFLD. 

P.EI. 

N.S. 

N.B. 

QUE. 

ONT. 

MAN. 

SASK. 

ALTA. 

B.C. 


1982 
A B 


4 2 

1 

10 

550 30 

21 7 

13 9 

15 2 

59 8 


1983 

A B 

1 

9 

2 2 

9 3 

541 52 

6 2 

4 4 

5 1 

634 74 


TOTAL 


732 (1)* 708 (1)* 


A: with CEC Clearance. 

B: Without CEC Clearance (admitted to the country under various 
exemption codes such as Working Holiday Programs, Canadian 
Crossroads, etc.) 

*(1) ‘1 not stated’ included in total. 


Barry Lowes 


IMMIGRATION TASK FORCE 

The protocol worked out between the Federal Ministry of Employ¬ 
ment and Immigration and the writer, together with the Executive 
Director, during our meeting in Ottawa, has continued to serve well 
the needs of Canadian camps wishing to employ some foreign camp 
counsellors. Year by year these procedures are becoming used and 
accepted by camps across Canada, making the hiring of foreign 
camp counsellors a smooth operation. We appreciate the continuing 
support and co-operation we have received from the federal officials. 
Whenever a problem has arisen, they have been quick to help. 

Few problems occurred during 1983, when they did arise they 
were due to camps not following the protocol step by step. 

We have given three undertakings to the Federal Ministry: 

1. That camps will endeavour to follow faithfully the steps as set out 
in the protocol. 

2. That every effort will be made to hire a “Canadian” before request¬ 
ing permission to employ a foreign camp counsellor. 

3. That camps will provide basic statistical information to their pro¬ 
vincial associations, which will be collated by the Canadian Camp¬ 
ing Association office and forwarded to this Ministry. 

This statistical information is confidential and imperative if we are 
to continue to justify our requests. 

We urge you to provide the statistical information requested. 
The statistics compiled by the Federal Government are in the 
chart above. 


Barry Lowes 


1987 INTERNATIONAL CAMPING 
CONGRESS 

The Second International Camping Congress, is planned for March 
3-5,1987, in Washington, D.C. The Canadian Camping Association 
is jointly sponsoring this event with the American Camping Associa¬ 
tion. To this end, I have been representing the CCA at the Steering 
Committee meetings and Program Committee meetings. 

The Theme has been established - “Our Fragile World - A 
Challenge for the Outdoor Community” Plans are proceeding very 
well and the following organizations have indicated that they will be 
Joint or Cooperating Sponsors: 

I the American Camping Association 
the Canadian Camping Association 
the Jamaica Camping and Hiking Association 
the National Camping Association of Japan 
the Alliance for Environmental Education 
American Association of Health, Physical 
Education, Recreation, and Dance 
the American Nature Study Society 
the Association of Experiential Education 
the Council of Outdoor Educators of Ontario 
Christian Camping International, U.S. Division 
Cooperating the European YMCA Camping Group 

the National Recreation and Park Association 
the National Society for Internships and 
Experiential Education 
the World Alliance of YMCAs 
the World Association of Girl Guides and 
Girl Scouts 

The purpose of this Congress is stated as follows: 

“The Second International Camping Congress is an event to bring 
together the practitioners of the outdoor experience movement 
from many nations and related organizations to examine the 
elements of our fragile world which challenge the organized 
camping, environmental, and experiential education community to 
impact participants for future action ” 

Further publicity and news of this event will be appearing in future 
editions of Canadian Camping magazine. 

Janet Adamson 


INTERNATIONAL YOUTH YEAR 
TASK FORCE 

The IYY Task Force was struck in March of 1983. Five committee 
members from across Canada met for our initial meeting in Toronto 
on April 16-17, 1983. During this initial meeting 3 tasks were 
completed; namely, to define our purposes, discuss theme and logo 
of IYY and develop possible projects which committee members 
could coordinate in helping CCA celebrate IYY in 1985. 

A second IYY Task Force meeting was held on October 22-23 to 
delineate and commit ourselves to projects developed during the 
initial meeting. Three nation-wide projects were defined in some 
detail. These projects include: 

1. National Celebration Event: a special summer day in Aug. of 1985 
where all campers in CCA help celebrate the international year of 
youth. Program kits for the themes of fitness, environment, his¬ 
torical roots and peace will be developed by the IYY Task Force. 


2. Youth Camp Director Institute: proposed for Jan. 31-Feb. 1,1985 
at Bolton Camp, Ontario, this Institute will help youth camp 
directors to develop managerial and leadership skills and to learn 
how to deliver the curriculum for the professional development 
of camp directors. 

3. Special CCA Magazine Edition: an entire issue of Canadian 
Camping will be devoted to our youth. Themes of this issue will 
include peace, fitness, environment and historical roots. 

Our next meeting, April 18-19,1984, will be devoted to coordinating 
and implementation of these 3 IYY projects for CCA. 

Hugh Phillips 


LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT 
PROGRAMS COMMITTEE 

The CCA/ACC Board provided funds for Consultant/Advisors 
from our internal sources last May. Since that time the following 
persons travelled to give leadership at provincial conferences and 
workshops: 

B.C. 1983 April 7-10 $ 474.00 JackPearse 

NFLD. April 21-24 $ 186.30 George Matthews 

N.B. May 27-29 $ 278.65 Jane McCutcheon 

N.S. June 10-12 $ 301.50 Jay Haddad 

N.B. 1984 February 9-12 $ 232.30 Martha Knowlton 
MAN. March 9-11 $ 211.70 Mickey Johnston 

ALTA. March 9-11 $ 368.00 Jay Haddad 

B.C. March 16-18 $ 422.00 Jay Haddad 

TOTAL: $2,474.45 

Ontario’s request for a Consultant/Advisor was not used due to 
illness on the part of the speaker. 

The Association des camps du Quebec could not use their 
Consultant/Advisor due to insufficient registration for their Winter 
Conference. 

In addition, the Consultant/Advisor also covered a portion of the 
expenses for the Executive Development Workshop Leader. 

It is always encouraging to see so many provinces benefit from 
sharing leadership of the CCA members. Thank you to all for 
participating, writing your reports and keeping the C/A spirit alive! 

Paul Potter 


NEWSLETTER COMMITTEE 

Canadian Camping completed Volume 35 with quarterly issues for 
Spring, Summer, Autumn and Winter. The feature articles covered 
a broad range of topics and the readers continue to respond through 
Letters To The Editor. 

Members from across the country have contributed articles and 
photographs. We are now in the enviable position of having too 
much material for some issues. 

The newsletter featured a special theme issue for Winter ’84 on 
the environment. This kind of focus will result in recruiting new 
writers who have particular expertise to share. 

The task of producing CANADIAN CAMPING is very much a 
team effort. Special thanks to Marc C6t£ who contributes to the 
layout and photo needs of the newsletter. In addition, Therese Wong, 


our typesetter, takes a special interest in helping us produce an 
attractive finished product. Finally, Ken Smith at the National Sport 
& Recreation Centre guides the newsletter through the printing and 
mailing process in Ottawa before it reaches the members. 

Next year we look forward to your contributions so that Canadian 
Camping will reflect our members from coast-to*coast. 

Jay Haddad 


PUBLICATIONS COMMITTEE 

The CCA Book Store has enjoyed a fantastic year. Gross sales have 
increased by $8,776.00 over the previous year. This is evidence of the 
need for this service and also the support being received from CCA 
members. 

The CIT Manual and the CIT Instructor’s Manual written by 
several CCA members and donated to the Association has 
increased the volume of sales significantly. Legacy to A Camper and 
the Woodsmanship Leaders 9 Guide , both donated by the authors, 
continue to boost profits. This underscores the need to develop 
books which can be published by CCA. 

We acknowledge the assistance of the following Provincial 
Associations who have made arrangements to have the CCA Book 
Store at their conferences and meetings: British Columbia, Alberta, 
Manitoba, Ontario, Nova Scotia, New Brunswick and Newfound¬ 
land. 

A research project of the Publications Committee, funded 
through Fitness Canada, is being carried out by Jack Zoubie. The 
purpose of this research is to investigate the potential market for a 
new publication concerning family camping. 

We are delighted with the increased interest in promoting the 
CCA Book Store across the country and appreciate each member’s 
contribution. We would like to encourage the membership to 
become involved in the Publications Committee by: (a) writing 
reviews of new publications for the CCA magazine and, (b) advising 
us of any title found useful which should be sold through the CCA 
Book Store. 

The Committee would like to thank Irene Knapp* CCA secretary 
who makes our volunteer contribution so much easier and more 
pleasant. 

Wendy Wren and Judy Richards 


PUBLIC RELATIONS AND 
PROMOTION COMMITTEE 

The main thrust of efforts for this committee is the promotion and 
success of National Camping Day - now in its second year. 

As you may remember, last year a workshop was held for provin¬ 
cial representatives in January and these people became the “team” 
who worked on NCD. Last year the time of the chairman was spent 
chiefly in keeping these people enthused, reminded and working. 

For NCD 1984 we chose a different direction. Knowing our team 
was well educated in their roles and able to tackle the public relations 
on a provincial basis, our approach this year was to back this up with 
national coverage. At the January meeting, the CCA Executive 
approved consultation with a PR firm. With their help, we distributed 
a press kit to major newspapers across Canada as well as to 
television stations. Terry Burkhalter from Manitoba prepared a 
radio spot which was sent out with a release and a letter to 70 radio 
stations across Canada. We know that this resulted in interviews in 
Manitoba and Alberta. Jocelyn Palm did interviews out West, and by 
phone to Quebec, and Marjorie Booth appeared on Canada AM - 
due, in part, to a magazine article done earlier in the year with the 
Protect Yourself Magazine. 

Individuals should be singled out who participated in a big way to 
make this year so successful. Thanks to Terry Burkhalter for this 
work on the tapes, and for a poster design which was sent to 1,000 
camping alumni on NCD. Marjorie Booth spent hours working with 
the PR firm in Toronto and helped the chairman, in Montreal, 
coordinate with them and the provincial representatives. As always, 
special appreciation must go to Jocelyn Palm whose initiative and 
drive have caused NCD to be. She also stands in the way of critics 
and helps field all the questions, giving those working assurance and 
support. 

In 1984 it is our intent to have another workshop for new 
provincial representatives, to broaden the team, and the provincial 
experience on public relations. This year our key areas of attack 
were the national media and Ontario. Next year a renewed team 
should be able to make strides on all fronts. 

NCD is hard work. To create a national effort, to highlight our 
activities and to re-educate media and parents about the importance 
of camp choice and early preparation is an almost impossible task. 
Perhaps that is why we continue. As persons who meet challenges 
every day, almost impossible tasks may be what we handle best. 

Mamie Ellis 


STANDARDS TASK FORCE 

The Standards Task Force members have had some information 
sharing over the past year. Communication of revised, updated 
standards or desired practices has been shared as well as process 
information as to how standards are being interpreted or enacted in 
various provinces. 

Requests have come from Mexico, the USA, and South America 
for general information. In addition, recreation-specific requests, eg. 
aquatics, come in on a regular basis. 

Objectives for the fall include a new provincial comparison of 
existing practices, the education of visitors, and an examination of 
the process of accreditation. 

Special thanks to those provinces that have been consistent in 
maintaining communication. 


Brian Law 



Canada 


Government of Canada 
Fitness and Amateur Sport 


Gouvernement du Canada 
Condition physique et Sport amateu 


riTNESS 

Catalyst 

Providing funding and consulting services 
nationwide. In partnership with national fitness 
and recreation associations. Fitness Canada 
activates innovative fitness programs to 
motivate all Canadians to a more healthy 
lifestyle. 

Fitness Canada . . . the key to physical activity 
and fitness for all. 


Pour de plus amples renseignements: 
Condition physique Canada 
365-ouest av. Laurier 
Ottawa (Ontario) 

K1A 0X6 


For More Information Contact: 
Fitness Canada 
365 Laurier Avenue West 
Ottawa, Ont. 

K1A0X6 


(Conditio 
Physique 

1 c Catal 

Fournit des fonds et des services de consultation 
partout au pays. Condition physique Canada 
s’associe a des organisations nationales de 
conditionnement physique et de recreation 
dans le but de mettre sur pied des programmes 
novateurs de condition physique pour inciter 
les Canadiens a poursuivre un mode de vie 
plus sain. 

Condition physique Canada ... la cle de 
l’activite et du bon conditionnement physiques 
pour tous. 




1985 


INTERNATIONAL 

YOUTH 

YEAR 

To Celebrate the 
International Youth Year 
the Canadian Camping Association 
has organized a Youth Camp Director’s 
Institute at Bolton Camp and 
Conference Centre, Ontario, 
January 31 to February 3,1985. 

THEMES TO BE ADDRESSED 

YOUTH - in a changing 
society. 

YOUTH - as world 
citizens. 

YOUTH - their development 
as leaders. 

YOUTH’S - values of today, 
directions for 
tomorrow. 

DELEGATES 

New and Experienced 
Directors. 

COST 

$145.00 all inclusive* 

Further information, including possible airfare 
subsidies, is available from your Provincial 
Camping Association. 


‘Delegates must arrange their own return transportation 
to Toronto. 


L’ANNEE 

INTERNATIONALE 
DE LA JEUNESSE 

A I’occasion de I’annee Internationale 
de la jeunesse, I’Association des 
camps du Canada organise un 
colloque a I’intention des directeurs 
des camps de jeunesse au “Bolton 
Camp and Conference Centre”, Ontario 
du 31 janvier au 3 fevrier 1985. 

SUJETS DE DISCUSSION 

LES JEUNES - dans une 
societeen pleine transformation 

LES JEUNES - en tant que 
citoyens du monde 

LES JEUNES - nos chefs 
de demain 

LES JEUNES - leurs valeurs 
aujourd’hui; leurs valeurs 
demain 

DELEGUES 

Les directeurs avec et sans 
experience 

FRAIS 

145,00$ Tout compris* 

Pour plus de renseignements au sujet de ce 
colloque, y compris possibility d’aide 
financiere pour le transport par avion, veuillez 
contacter votre Association des camps 
provinciate. 

‘Les d§l6gu6s doivent s'occuper de leur transport pour le 
retour d Toronto. 



Do you believe in abortion? 

Card 1 - From a 8 year old to a Counsellor who 
strongly believes in pro-life, and is against abor¬ 
tion, except in extreme medical or emotional 
situations. 

Card 2 - From a 8 year old to a Counsellor who 
believes in the right of the female to obtain an 
abortion when she wishes. 

Card 3 - From a 15 year old to a Counsellor who 
strongly believes in pro-life and is against 
abortion, except in extreme medical or emotional 
situations. 

Card 4 - From a 15 year old to a Counsellor who 
strongly believes in the right of the female to 
obtain an abortion whenever she wishes. 

Topic - Use of Drugs. 

Do you smoke pot? 

Card 1 - From a 10 year old to a Counsellor who 
smokes marijuana or hashish quite regularly. 
Card 2 - From a 10 year old to a Counsellor who 
has tried pot once or twice, but is fairly opposed 
to the practice. 

Card 3 - From a 15 year old to a Counsellor who 
often smokes pot or hashish. 


BOOK REVIEW 

by: Michael Kenny 

“Outdoor Safety & Survival” 

by: Ministry of Lands, Parks and Housing. 
Government of B.C. 

This 153 page, 14 chapter pocket sized book¬ 
let is a “mini Bible” for the outdoor enthusiast, 
one that should be brought along on every trip. 
Even if you don’t require it, it makes excellent 
bed time reading as you sit curled up next to a 
warm campfire dreaming of wild places. 

The chapters of the book give a thorough 
overview of the basic information one requires 
when entering the back country. 

Starting off with a short introduction in the 
psychology of survival, the authors move on to a 
concise eight page chapter on clothing and 
equipment. A short section on travel tips includ¬ 
ing winter travel and how to keep warm is very 
helpful and sensibly points out that if you are 
lost, sometimes the best solution is to stay put. 

The chapters on Finding Your Direction, 
Shelter Building, and Hypothermia have made 
good use of diagrams and charts in addition to 
comprehensive written material. The chapter on 
First Aid covers most of the minor afflictions that 
will occur in back country, but as the authors 
take pains to point out- take a complete first aid 
course before venturing out and when you do 
go, “be prepared” for the worst 

The book uses a common sense perspective 
to outdoor safety- it stresses preparation; how¬ 
ever, if you do find yourself in trouble, take a hold 
of yourself and utilize the resources around you. 
This booklet will be of use to all travellers, 
novice or expert, whatever their mode of travel 
may be. Read It - It might be your life that you 
save. 


Card 4 - From a 15 year old to a Counsellor who 
has had a friend severely mentally impaired by 
the use of non-medical drugs, but is not opposed 
to the experimenting with pot and hashish. 

Topic - Homosexuality. 

Do you think someone who is gay should be 
allowed to be a Minister? 

Card 1 - From all year old to a Counsellor who 
has few problems with homosexual being 
ordained by the Church. 

Card 2 - From a 11 year old to a Counsellor who 
strongly objects to having a known homosexual 
as a Minister of a Church. 

Card 3 - From a 16 year old camper or LIT. to a 
Counsellor who has few problems with a homo¬ 
sexual being ordained by the Church. 

Card 4 - From a 16 year old camper or L.I.T. to a 
Counsellor who strongly objects to having a 
known homosexual as a Minister of a Church. 

Topic - Censorship. 

Do you believe in censorship of movies , books, 
T.V. magazines? 

Card 1 - From a 10 year old to a Counsellor who 
feels that there should be No censorship, but 
also believes there should be controlled access 


to anyone under the legal age. 

Card 2 - From a 10 year old to a Counsellor who 
believes the government has the responsibility 
to censor - and indeed increase censorship. 
Card 3 - From a 15 year old to a Counsellor who 
feels it is an intrusion on the rights of any 
individual to censor anything. 

Card 4 - From a 15 year old to a Counsellor who 
strongly believes lack of censorship increases 
crimes of violence and sexual perversion - 
therefore censorship is a must. 

The above are merely sample topics for 
discussion. In planning this event, the Director 
can write his or her own cards. 

Additional questions might be: 

• Do you believe in Hell? 

• Should someone charged with driving while 
drunk be jailed immediately? 

• Even though Canada is a committed member 
of NATO, should we allow Cruise Missile Test¬ 
ing over our soil? 

• Did you get drunk on your day-off yesterday? 

• Does a person have a right to terminate his/ 
her life? 


CANADIAN 

CONSERVATION 

DIRECTORY 

by: Jean Funk, Environment 
Chairperson 

Ever wonder who else is working to safeguard 
Canada’s environment? The Canadian Nature 
Federation’s non-government organ¬ 
izations concerned with environmental issues. 

Organizations are described in the following 
categories: 

Provincial, natioal, and international 
organizations 

Environmental advisory councils 
Provincial, federal, inter-governmental 
agencies 
Nature centres 
Museums of natural history 
Professional organizations 
Environmental lawyers 
Environmental consulting firms. 

The date established, purpose, number of 
members, serialized and specialized publica¬ 
tions, and recent activities of each organization 
are detailed. 

Your Directory may be purchased for $5.00 
plus 50$ handling charge by writing to: 
Canadian Nature Federation 
75 Albert Street Suite 203, 

Ottawa, Ontario KIP 6G1 

Available from CCA Bookstore: 

$4.95 plus $1.50 shipping 


POEM 



UNITY 

Jesus help us live in peace, 

From our blindness set us free. 
Fill us with your healing love; 

Help us live in unity. 

Many times we disagree, 

O'er what’s right or wrong to do; 
It’s so hard to really see 
From the other’s point of view. 

How we long for power and fame, 
Seeking every earthly thing; 

We forget the one who came 
As a servant not a king. 


Canada's Birthday 

Don't just run it up 
the flagpole. 

Run it around the block. 



"OUR FRAGILE WORLD— 

A CHALLENGE FOR THE 
OUTDOOR COMMUNITY" 

SECOND INTERNATIONAL CAMPING CONGRESS 

March 3-5. 1987 Shoreham Hotel Washington, D.C. 

*Jointly Sponsored by 

the American Camping Association 
the Canadian Camping Association 
the Jamaica Camping and Hiking Association 
the National Camping Association of Japan 


*In Cooperation with 

the Alliance for Environmental Education 
American Association of Health, Physical Education, 
Recreation, and Dance 
the American Nature Study Society 
the Association of Experiential Education 
the Council of Outdoor Educators of Ontario 
Christian Camping International, U.S. Division 
the European YMCA Camping Group 
the National Recreation and Park Association 
the National Society for Internships and Experiential Education 
the World Alliance of YMCAs 
the World Association of Girl Guides and Girl Scouts 


Purpose 

The Second International Camping Congress is an event to bring together the 
practitioners of the outdoor experience movement from many nations and 
related organizations to examine the elements of our fragile world which 
challenge the organized camping, environmental, and experiential education 
community to impact participants for future action. 


Specifically, the Congress shall seek: 


To share current knowledge and techniques in organized camping and outdoor 
environmental and experiential education. 

To consider global issues such as peace and conservation which can be impacted 
by the outdoor experience movement. 

To explore with a global perspective the future trends of the camping, out¬ 
door environmental and experiential education movement and the implication 
on culture. 

To foster an atmosphere of personal sharing across international and inter¬ 
disciplinary lines. 

If you are a member of one of the aforementioned organizations, watch for 
further information from your organization. If you are not already a member 
of one of these organizations and wish to be placed on the mailing list for the 
Congress, write Second International Camping Congress, c/o American Camp¬ 
ing Association, Bradford Woods, Martinsville, IN 46151. 



Memorable Quotes from "Blackie" Blackstock 



by: Adele and Harry Ebbs 

C.R. BLACKSTOCK, 'Blackie' B.Sc. (McGill) 
L.L.D. (York) 

Blackie was at Pickering College in 1928, 
during the same period as the late Taylor 
Statten, who realized the contribution he would 
make on staff at Camp Ahmek. However, this 
had to wait because Blackie was a Kitchikewana 
‘original’. He started the first year of that V camp 
on Beausoleil Island in 1921 as a very young 
counsellor, when Ernie Thurlow, boys work 
secretary for Simcoe County, was the director. 
Blackie rose to assistant director when Win 
Smith took over. He gave input to the current 
research being done by the Society of Camp 
Directors, of which he was a Founding Fellow, 
when he alleged that canoe trippers should be 
trained to handle risk and to anticipate it. For his 
contribution to the Ontario Camping Association 
he earned an Honourary Life Membership. 

Hedid some summercoursesatWisconsin in 
out-door education, and finished his formal 
education at McGill, earning a Bachelor of 
Science. His Honour Doctorate was granted at 
York University in 1974. 

In 1936 he directed Bolton Camp and for some 
years after that was the inspired and creative 
director of Camp Pinecrest. His interest and 
education in the out-of-doors he applied at 
Pickering College by exposing the boys to the 
first winter school-camping for a number of 
seasons at Limberlost Lodge. 

For a man of his interests it was natural to 
seek fulfillment, along with compatible partners, 
by establishing a camp of their own. Since the 
beginning, in 1940, Camp Mazinaw has ex¬ 
pressed Blackie’s basic philosophy of excel¬ 
lence in endeavour and encouragement to all 
individuals whatever their ability. With the chal¬ 
lenge of the great Bon Echo rock always in view, 
he has soared above to reach for the stars - and 
led all who would follow. 

His influence has been felt all across Canada, 
first through the Canadian Red Cross and 
latterly for many years as executive secretary of 
the Canadian Association of Physical and Health 
Education. Even in retirement he was appointed 
consultant to the Sports Centre in Ottawa. 


The following quotes are excerpts from the 
Camping Archives at Trent University: 

Camping’s Adventure 

“There wasn’t any real idea of going out and 
competing against nature for survival or some¬ 
thing! This wasn’t the idea behind most of the 
people, was it? I think it was more for enjoyment 
and well, maybe, an escape from the city.” 

“The adventure that any of us, no matter what 
age, but anybody that is young in mind or spirit 
will seek these. Like climb Everest. Why? You 
can’t answer that question. You accept a chal¬ 
lenge from nature, not to master it, but to live with 
it” 

“The real thing about it is that we are children of 
the world and we live with the other creatures 
that are in it. And sure there’s a survival element 
to it. You’ve got to be able to read the wind if 
you're going to canoe on some lakes, you’ve got 
to be able to read the water if you’re going to 
travel some streams or rivers; you’ve got to be 
able to read the sky, or stars... if you’re going to 
find your way around in the bush; and it just 
depends on where your curiosity leads you.” 

Importance of Rules 

“Those of us who have been teachers, and 
especially teachers of physical education - 
we’ve noticed this change, this disregard for 
rules. Rules are there to make any kind of 
competition human. You can go out and play 
football, and if you’re playing for money, the 
chances are you’ll do a lot of things that you 
wouldn’t if you were out in the corner lot 
throwing a ball around. Now in the one case, 
you have a set of officials that endeavours to 
rule everybody that’s playing, and their actions. 
But in the other case on the corner lot, or on the 
lawn, you rule yourselves. You know ruddy well 
that you’re not going to do something to the 
other guy that he might do back to you, but 
better. Now this kind of rule was a ruling we’ve 
been brought up to respect. And even as a kid 
my parents would not let me get vicious with 
animals, whether they were domesticated, or 
wild. And so I wouldn’t think of pushing a horse 
beyond what I should know is its capability. 
Cause I’ve been brought up to recognize. Or I 
couldn’t go shooting, and just kill for the sake of 
killing. So I’m not a hunter. But I can live with 
those animals when I get out in the bush. So 
conservation isn’t something that needs to be 
taught; you expose people to the situation, and 
they’re sharp enough to see ... well gee, some¬ 
body’s mucking up the water! Or look at all those 
trees; somebody left a fire, and they’re all burned 
down. That hurts. Or you go along and see a 
bunch of fish up on the shore beside a fire¬ 
place, and they’re left there to rot. Why not leave 
them in the water? You’re not going to use it. You 
know, man is ... it still comes from heaven, and 
you can only take what you can use and the rest 
of it will go bad.” 

A Tough and Chellenging Interviewee 

Q: Do you have trouble getting qualified staff 
members to work at your camp? 

B.B.: “What do you mean by qualified?" 


Q: Well first of all, they must have a mature, 
responsible attitude... 

B.B.: “How do you measure that?” 

Q: The way they will carry out their actions - if 
you ask them to do something, you know that it 
will be done. And it will be done well. And if they 
can’t do it, they will try. 

B.B.: “Are you a qualified person?” 

Q: I believe so, yes. 

B.B.: “In whose opinion?” 

Q: In my own! After all these years of... 

B.B.: “If I was a camp director and hiring you for 
the summer, which I well might do, how would I 
know that you were, before I saw you in action, 
at Mazinaw?” 

Q: That’s very difficult to tell. You could go by the 
sales-pitch that I could give you, and my back¬ 
ground. 

B.B.: “I might go by that.” 

Q: By sales-pitch, some people can come on 
very sincere, and when they get into the real 
situation they may have been sincere originally, 
but when they get into the real situation they 
might find it too much to cope with. This is what I 
mean by a sales-pitch. 

B.B.: “Well, I don’t pay very much attention to 
sales-pitches." 

Q: Well, what do you look for in a person when 
you hire them? 

B.B.: “A person that’s interested in other people, 
more than himself.” 

His Philosophy 

“Well, I don’t care where the campsite is, as long 
as it provides an opportunity for people to learn 
to live in it. You could have a camp in the city, if 
your purpose was to have a kid learn to live in 
the city, comfortably, with others, eh? So really 
the site doesn’t matter. It’s what you take in the 
way of staff to the site. And they must have 
enough imagination, and initiative to exploit, if 
you like, but to develop that particular site to 
achieve the purpose which you set for your¬ 
selves. You can choose any purpose you like. 
Blair Fraser and Sigurd Olson, and Eric Morse- 
have camped all over the ancient riverways of 
this country. They know it. And they lived there. 
And they found out how others lived there, and 
travelled through it. Lome Brown has a camp up 
on the High Savannahs of - in the caribou 
country in British Columbia. It’s a small camp 
like this. Purposes aren’t quite the same, speci¬ 
fically; but fundamentally they are. So, I just don’t 
think that we, as people, and particularly Cana¬ 
dians, should not enjoy living in any part of it; 
and exploring it, for the fun of that exploration, 
and to satisfy our curiosity. The most important 
part is that people should know: The kingdom is 
where 2 or 3 are gathered together in My name’. 
In wonderment and in awe at the loveliness of 
life. And what other purpose is there for being 
alive? If you don’t know your world, you’ll be 
perfectly safe, if you just stay in one spot. The 
most important quality that a leader has is his 
curiosity. He doesn’t centre on himself; he 
centres on other things. All will come back to 
him as he gives." 


13 



KIDNEY KIDS 
CAMP OUT 
OVERNIGHT 

by: Dave Sands 
lllahee Northwoods Camp 

Camping programs have recently added a 
new dimension to the lives of children with 
severe kidney failure. Now, thanks to meticulous 
planning by lllahee Northwoods Camp staff, 
these boys and girls can even take overnight 
canoe trips. 

For the past three years lllahee Northwoods 
Camp has provided a two-week camping experi¬ 
ence for about 40 children with severe kidney 
disorders. The children come from across 
Canada and are sponsored by the Kidney Foun¬ 
dation of Canada, lllahee is a camp for children 
whose activity is limited by their health and it 
annually provides a camping experience for 
about 200 children with a variety of medical 
conditions. 

Life at camp for the child with a kidney 
condition is circumscribed by the demands of 
treatment, either haemo-dialysis or continuous 
ambulatory peritineal dialysis, which takes a 
great lump of time out of their day. But with the 
dialysis unit right on the camp grounds treatment 
time is kept to a minimum. The unit is staffed for 
that one period by renal specialists (doctor, 
nurses and technicians) provided by the Kidney 
Foundation which also raised the money to con¬ 
struct and equip the building. 

In November 1982, we got our senior camp 
staff together to brainstorm ways to make their 
stay more meaningful for these campers. It was 
decided to organize an overnight camping trip¬ 
an unlikely activity for a child accustomed to 
spending much of his life in hospitals. They 
would fit the trips between periods of dialysis or 
medication taking off after morning treatment 
one day, returning for treatment the next day. 


Planning the Trip 

Every detail was thought through carefully in 
advance. A complete medical kit was assembled 
and extra medical staff assigned to the trip. With 
advance menu planning and pre-packaging the 
food was suited to their dietic needs, but still 
provided an outdoor and tripping flavour... stew, 
french toast, puddings, etc. Contingency arrange¬ 
ments were made for possible emergencies. 
Once all plans were complete Sands proceeded 
to sell the idea of the trip to the skeptical renal 
medical staff, who finally gave permission for 
the first trip. 

As a result, a group of twelve campers, five 
with kidney disorders, set ouf from lllahee in a 
pioneer camping venture. They were accom¬ 
panied by three camping staff, a renal nurse and 
a regular camp nurse. Travelling in war or 
freighter canoes, they were shadowed by a 
distant motor boat ... just in case. One staff 
person, the tripper, knew that there was a truck 
parked near the remote campsite and a phone 
was also available, but these were not needed. 


Camping Out 

The trip was like any other camping trip at 
lllahee. The campers learned to build fires and 
cook their food. In the evening they had a 
singsong around the campfire and then slept on 
the ground in tents they had learned to pitch 
themselves. After preparing and enjoying a 
healthy morning breakfast they set out again in 
their canoes, heading back to camp and their 
very necessary medication and treatment. 

For the children it was a complete new world, 
one they never had thought of entering. They 
were able to go home and tell their friends and 
they, too, had been camping outdoors... at night 
... in the wild. For the renal medical staff it was an 
eye-opener. Medically, the children had not 
suffered, but their self-confidence had soared. 
They saw themselves accomplishing normal, 
even a little risky, tasks and camp took on a new 
meaning to them. The medical team became 
staunch supporters of the trips and two more 
were undertaken before the boys and girls left 
camp. The out-trips will now be an integral part 
of the program for children with renal conditions. 


Rabies - A Problem for Children s Camps 


By: J.H. Ebbs, M.D. 

The majority of children's camps are in areas 
away from cities and towns - in the country, 
rural areas and often close to or in wilderness 
districts. 

Wild animals are numerous but only a per¬ 
centage are seen. 

Rabies was known for a long time in the Arctic 
and northern regions of Canada. I the 1950’s, it 
spread south and east across the country, 
affecting mostly dogs and recently cows. 

Prior to 1950 there were a few cases of rabies 
reported each year. The peak occurred between 
1953 and 1958, while now there are about 1,000 
per year. 

In addition to cattle and dogs, it also occurs in 
cats, horses, sheep, goats and bats (the majority 


in western Canada and Ontario). The majority of 
rabid skunks were reported in Ontario and 
Saskatchewan (32%) while foxes (62%) were in 
Ontario. 

Rabies in wild animals rises in the autumn as 
the young males spread out, while in early 
spring the females are affected during and 
following the litter. 

While rabies is now largely controlled in cats 
and dogs by a higher percent of immunizations, 
it is still necessary to treat several hundred 
people a year who have been bitten or exposed 
to rabid animals. Fortunately the new vaccines 
and serums do not cause the severe illness 
which was common in the past. 

At camp, all persons, bitten, scratched or in 


contact with a suspected animal, should as 
soon as possible have wounds, scratches and 
skin washed with soap and water or detergent 
and given a tetanus injection as well as antibio¬ 
tics and an application of alcohol or iodine to the 
wound. 

Prevention of rabies risk is to get rid of stray 
and suspicious animals - report them and if 
killed preserve the head intact for examination. 

The seriousness of the disease demands 
strict practices for all personnel in camp with 
regard to animals. 

1. Don’t have domestic animals in camp which 
have not been vaccinated. 

2. Avoid having pets in camp. 

3. Caution all campers and staff to avoid contact 
with all animals - especially young ones. 


SOCIETY PRIX DE REDACTION 

OF DE LA SOCIETE 

CAMP DIRECTORS DES DIRECTEURS 

AWARDS PAPERS DES CAMPS 


$450.00 

The Society of Camp Directors, in cooperation with La Societe des directeurs des camps, de concert 
the Canadian Camping Association will award a total avec I’Association des camps du Canada, lance un 

of $450.00 in prizes for articles relating to camping. concours de redaction sur le camping et accordera 

The winning articles will be published in the Summer 450,00$ en prix aux gagnants. Les articles selection- 

1985 issue of Canadian Camping. nes paraitront dans le magazine de I’Association, 

edition ete 1985. 


CONTEST RULES 
Categories 

Director: prize $200.00 
length not to exceed 3000 words 

Staff: prize $150.00 

length not to exceed 2000 words 

Camper: prize $100.00 
length not to exceed 800 words 

Send articles to: 



Society of Camp Directors 


REGLEMENTS DU CONCOURS 
Categories 

Directeurs: prix de 200,00$ 
maximum 3000 mots 

Membres du personnel: prix de 150,00$ 
maximum 200 mots 

Campeurs: prix de 100,00$ 
maximum 1800 roots 


Veuillez envoyer vos articles a I’adresse suivante: 


Editor 

Society of Camp Directors Awards Papers 
1806 Avenue Road 
Suite 2 

Toronto, Ontario 
M3M 3Z1 



Le redacteur 
Prix de redaction de la Soci6t6 
des directeurs des camps 
1806 Avenue Road 
Suite 2 
Toronto, Ontario 


M5M 3Z1 


Two copies of your article marked SOCIETY OF 
CAMP DIRECTORS AWARDS PAPERS must be 
received by November 15,1984 to be eligible. 

Articles may be submitted in French or English. 

All articles must be original work, not previously 
published elsewhere. 


Pour etre admissible votre article portant la mention 
Prix de redaction de I’Association des directeurs des 
camps doit nous parvenir en double exemplaires, au 
plus tard le 15 novembre 1984. 

Les articles peuvent etre r6dig6s en frangais ou en 
anglais. 

II devra s’agir de textes authentiques et inedits. 




YOUTH CAMP 

DIRECTOR 

INSTITUTE 

by: Ceciley Parker, 

Institute Committee 

1985 is the International Youth Year. To cel¬ 
ebrate the occasion the Canadian Camping 
Association has organized a Youth Camp Direc¬ 
tor’s Institute, to be held January 31st to Febru¬ 
ary 3rd. 1985, at Bolton Camp and Conference 
Centre, Ontario. 

Focusing on Youth, the four day event will 
address a variety of subjects under the theme 
headings of: 

Youth - in a changing society 

Youth - as world citizens 

Youth - their development as leaders 

Youth’s - values of today, directions for 
tomorrow. 

Some specific topics to be discussed include: 

• youth as a minority 

• volunteerism 

• stress 

• changing family structure 

• addiction 

• women’s emergence 

• communication (human and computer) 

• camping as a lifetime activity 

• impact of media on developing values 

• developing responsibility, empathy, 
sympathy. 

Leadership 

The organizing committee is currently en¬ 
deavouring to draw together internationally 
renowned speakers. Delegates from across 
Canada, representing new and experienced 
Directors, will be able to share experiences and 
ideas through workshops and discussions. 

Cost 

The $145.00 registration fee is all inclusive. It 
covers the Institute fee, accommodation, meals 
(Thursday dinner through to Sunday lunch), and 
return transportation from Pearson International 
Airport to Bolton Camp and Conference Centre. 
While delegates will be responsible for return 
transportation from their home province, there 
are some airfare subsidies available. 

Further information will be available soon 
through your Provincial Camping Association. 
Since there will be a limit on the number of 
places available, we urge you to mark your 
calendar and apply early so that you may be part 
of this national gathering of directors. Institute 
registration information will be available by 
September 1984. 


CONFERENCE 

ANNOUNCEMENT 

The National Association of Environmental 
Education has organized an INTERNATIONAL 
CONFERENCE to be held at: 

CHATEAU LAKE LOUISE 
BANFF, ALBERTA, CANADA 
October 5-9,1984 

THEME: International Perspectives on 
Environmental Education: 

Issues and Actions 

SUB THEMES: Issues of Global Futures, 
Campaign for the Biosphere, Environmental 
Education Planning, World Conservation Strat¬ 
egy and Environmental Education, The Built 
Environment. 

The organizers of the conference are in the 
process of inviting specialists from various 
regions of the world to present workshops and 
papers at the plenary sessions. Anyone inter¬ 
ested in making presentations at this conference 
should send abstracts to the Program Chair¬ 
person: Dr. Dorothy Cox, 32493 Shady Ridge 
Drive, Farmington Hills, Michigan, U.S.A. 48018. 

The conferences will be held in one of the 
most beautiful natural settings in North America 
and will intersperse speakers and discussion 
sessions of global importance with investigative 
field trips to such places as: Columbia Ice 
Fields, Dinosaur Provincial Park, Kananaskis 
Park Research Science and Outdoor Education 
Centre, Vermillion Lakes Area for Birding, Gas 
Processing Plants and others. 


The conference will provide an outstanding 
opportunity for participants to interface on a 
personal basis with leading educators from all 
continents with opportunities to explore with 
professional interpreters the spectacular east¬ 
ern slope of the Canadian Rockies. 

For further information contact the Confer¬ 
ence Chairperson: Dr. William B. Stapp, School 
of Natural Resources, The University of Michi¬ 
gan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, U.S.A. 48109. 

1987 international 
Camping Congress 

By: Janet Adamson 

Archie Bunker’s chair, Franklin D. Roosevelt’s 
state china, Shirley Temple’s shoes - all this at 
the Smithsonian and an International Camping 
Congress, in Washington. 

The 2nd International Camping Congress is 
to be held March 3-5,1987 in Washington, D.C. 
The Canadian Camping Association is co¬ 
sponsoring the Congress with the American 
Camping Association and it promises to be an 
exciting international camping event. 

The Congress will be held at the Shoreham 
Hotel, which is close to all the sights of Washing¬ 
ton - the White House, Georgetown, Congress, 
and yes even the Pentagon. 

Do plan to attend. (Start your “Send myself to 
Washington Fund” now!) Oh yes, the Smithso¬ 
nian, which is actually seven museums, is free! 



16 


eQ-uox-\/-!w duiBQ 




Environmental 

Activities 

By: Jean Funk 

Does your camp have: 

AN OWL? 

A BIG BACKYARD? 

A WORLD? 

A CHICKADEE? 

A RANGER RICK? 

What do each of these have in common? 

• Each is packed with stories, games, puzzles, 
jokes, mazes, and posters 

• Each explores our natural world - its plants, 
wildlife, natural wonders, and the sky above 

• Each is for children, with contributions by 
children. 

Build your camp repertoire of stories and 
activities by subscribing to these magazines: 

OWL and CHICKADEE: 

CHICKADEE is for children 3-4 years old. 
OWL is for children 9-14 years old. OWL and 
CHICKADEE are Canadian magazines. Sub¬ 
scription fees are $15.00/year/magazine. A 
variety of activity and story books are also avail¬ 
able. A children’s nature trivial pursuit game is 
currently being developed by the OWL staff. 
Contact: OWL and CHICKADEE Magazines, 51 
Front St. East, Toronto, Ontario M5E 1B3. 

WORLD 

The National Geographic Society publishes 
WORLD for boys and girls 8 years and older. 
Maps, books, records, and cassettes are also 
available. WORLD magazine costs $8.95 US for 
12 issues. National Geographic membership 
fees (includes the National Geographic maga¬ 
zine) costs $20 US or $24.60 CDN. Contact: The 
Executive Vice President, National Geographic 
Society, Post Office Box 2895, Washington, D.C. 
20013 U.S.A. 

RANGER RICK and YOUR BIG BACKYARD 
YOUR BIG BACKYARD is for children 3-5 
years and RANGER RICK is for children 6-12 
years. The National Wildlife Federation pub¬ 
lishes both magazines. Subscription fees are 
$14.50 for 12 issues of RANGER RICK, and 
$12.50 for 12 issues of YOUR BIG BACKYARD. A 
variety of games, books and gift items are avail¬ 
able. Contact: National Wildlife Federation, 1412 
16 St. N.W., Washington, D.C. 20036 U.S.A. 



Canada 



Exercise your rights 
and your lefts! 



ponnc/pocTion^® 


17 



Dispose of camp food 
^ service problems with 

royal Chinet 

disposable plates and bowls 

Strong, attractive Royal CHINET food service products help you ... 

• DISPOSE OF DISHWASHING COSTS 

Cut the expense of installing, maintaining and manning equipment 
that is used only a few months of the year. 

• DISPOSE OF BREAKAGE 

Save yourself the trouble and expense of buying matching replace¬ 
ments for pieces that crack, chip and shatter. 

• DISPOSE OF FOOD WASTE 

You get exact portion control with Royal CHINET’s wide range of 
sizes in regular and compartmented designs. 

• DISPOSE OF GERM COLLECTORS 

Royal CHINET products are sterilized when manufactured and 
packaged. And there’s never a germ-collecting chip, crack or 
poorly washed dish. 

• DISPOSE OF IRRITATING NOISE 

Disposable service is silent service. Meals are relaxed without the 
clatter and crash of china or metal. 

ENVIRONMENTAL ADVANTAGES, TOO 

All good campers want to protect the environment. Royal CHINET prod¬ 
ucts are manufactured from a renewable resource. What’s more, they’re 
biodegradable .. . molded of natural wood fibres that burn readily with 
little smoke. Even if discarded out-of-doors, Royal CHINET quickly de¬ 
composes in the earth. 

Get the full particulars now. Mail this coupon today. 



CKF Inc. 
HANTSPORT, 


NOVA SCOTIA, BOP IPO 


Please provide me with details of the variety and costs of Royal 
CHINET food service products. 


NAME_ 

COMPANY or CAMP 

ADDRESS__ 

n , CITY- 






PROV. 











CAMPING ...THE LAST WORD! 

by Kirsty Griffiths, Camping Coordinator, Ontario March of Dimes 


First of all let me commend the CCA for devoting 
almostan entire issue to camping opportunities 
for disabled people. The issue of integration vs. 
segregation continues to be a difficult one for 
many people to come to terms with, including 
camp directors. 

Sylvia Haynes’ article “Camping is Fun! And it 
is for Everyone!” assists camp directors by 
identifying many factors they should consider. 
The intent of the article is excellent in: 1) promot¬ 
ing a camping experience for disabled young¬ 
sters in an integrated setting; 2) encouraging 
directors to plan and prepare beforehand; 3) 
encouraging the design of accessible facilities 
with a view to the future. 

Being involved myself in a camping program 
for physically disabled adults I read the article 
with interest. Often those of us working with 
disabled people get caught up in the language 
and jargon of the discipline. It is my opinion that 
once the attitudinal barrier has been passed the 
process of integration, although involving much 
effort, is really not that difficult in a camping 
situation. It is for this reason that I feel I must 
comment, expand and attempt to clarify for the 
uninitiated the points raised in this article. 

The author asks “What % of disabled/non- 
disabled?" It occurs to me that rather than 
setting a %, each Camp Director needs to deter¬ 
mine what number of disabled children can be 
provided with a good experience at his/her 
camp - taking into consideration the child's dis¬ 
ability, the view of parents of non-disabled 
children attending camp, number of staff, the 
physical site and the type of program the camp 
offers. Consideration must also be given to the 
physical, social and emotional needs of the 
potential camper. 

The author asks “... a pool - is it warm enough 
to stand in for at least 40 minutes? - suggest 86”. 
A heated pool is of course ideal but this shouldn't 
discourage the child from swimming, nor the 
Camp Director from accepting thechildatcamp. 
The disabled child has as much right to get cold 
and then feel the warmth of a fire and hot 
chocolate as any other child! However, common 
sense and flexibility should prevail. In a child 
with Cerebral Palsy for example - the muscles 
will tighten in cold water and this could be 
painful if the child gets very chilled. 

The author asks “Are bunk beds OK? Yes... 
as long as they are accessible from both sides”. 
Yes, bunk beds are feasible, but you may not 
have access from both sides. Again don’t let this 
deter you! Some children using wheelchairs 
transfer better from one side or the other. Let him 
pick thei r bed on either the right or the left side of 
the room or switch the pillow end when the 
make up their bed to accommodate their “good" 
side. A side rail might be appropriate in some 
cases. If this is not possible and the child is used 
to this security - just “bank” the mattress 
towards the wall. (i.e. put pillows or rolled up 
blankets between the mattress and the frame 


along the outside edge so the mattress is gently 
sloped to the wall. Lifting someone in and out of 
a bunk bed is inconvenient but it can be done if 
you are committed to having that child at camp. 

There are many resources available to assist 
a camp director with the proper dimensions for 
the physical plant. I have attempted to list some 
of these at the end of my letter. Removable 
ramps may be necessary for some camps but 
the ideal is to build them well and have them 
permanent. Ramps can be used by everyone 
but stairs present a barrier to some. 

The author describes the slope of the ramp as 
“One foot rise in 12 inches". I take issue with this 
description. It should read 1 inch rise in 12 
inches or more clearly stated for every inch rise 
the ramp should extend 12 inches out. For 
example, if the step into a building is 6 inches 
high you will need a 6 foot ramp. If a long ramp is 
needed there can be an L shape with a landing. 
There should be a double railing on both sides 
of the ramp and a “lip” running along the edges 
of the ramp on the floor is advisable. A wheel¬ 
chair must not be able to fall off a ramp or go 
through a railing. 

The points regarding level of basins, soap 
dishes and mirrors in washrooms are well 
taken. However no mention is made of toilet 
stalls. Wider doors that open out as well as 
enlarged cubicles are needed. Again refer to the 
resources that are available for dimensions. 

The author states that “Picnic tables... can be 
accessible”. For the uninitiated, the how is 
answered by simply removing the bench seat 
from one side to allow someone in a wheelchair 
to reach the table. 

The author asks "How much of the rails 
should be changed?" I assume the author is 
referring to hand rails? There should be hand 
rails on both sides of stairways and they should 
be round, like piping rather than a 2 x 4 which is 
often used. 

The author’s point is well taken in suggesting 
you have a disabled person assist you in recom¬ 
mending adjustments to your site. But remember 
what may be right for one disabled individual 
may be a hindrance to another. Again it is advis¬ 
able to follow universally accepted standards 
and adjust to suit your own situation. 

The question about staff is raised. I fully agree 
that staff be prepared and I believe it is impera¬ 
tive that all the staff in your camp receive some 
basic practical and attitudinal training, not just 
those assigned to work with the disabled 
campers. Depending on the size of your staff 
and the scope of your program of integration 
this could be done in a morning or over a couple 
of days. The most important thing to remember 
is that your staff do not need to be specifically 
hired for their previous experience with disabled 
children. By contacting your local associations 
who work with sight or hearing impaired chil¬ 
dren, developmental^ handicapped people or 
those individuals with physical disabilities you 


should find a wealth of information and people 
more than likely willing to come to your staff 
orientation period and provide this training. 

With regards to “parents’ apprehensions of 
mainstreaming”. Assuming these are parents of 
your non-disabled children this is indeed a 
major consideration. This issue is far too large 
to discuss here but some things you might con¬ 
sider when integrating for the first time are: 1) a 
letter to the parents of your non-disabled 
campers outlining your intentions by discussing 
the positive nature of the program and assuring 
them their child is going to receive the same 
care and attention that he/she always does; 2) 
hold a meeting for parents - have an outside 
resource person available - perhaps another 
camp director who has been through the pro¬ 
cess or someone from a local association 
working with disabled persons. You certainly 
don’t want to lose your regular clientele but I 
believe with the proper approach and a carefully 
thought out program you should receive a 
generally positive response. 

For the most part the author has used the 
words disabled and handicapped as adjectives. 
However at times in the article - perhaps, for 
abbreviation sake, they are used as nouns. For 
example “Do not use labels on handicapped - 
this arouses immediate fears”. Although a subtle 
distinction (and probably very unintentional) 
when referring to people with disabilities we all 
must make a very conscious effort to use these 
words as an adjective, always using words like 
children, people or individual as the noun. The 
words handicapped and disabled seem to be 
used interchangeably in the article. Our experi¬ 
ence has shown that the word handicapped is 
not generally accepted by those people with 
physical disabilities. Your readers might be 
interested in knowing that the derivation of the 
word comes from cap in hand - a person 
begging for money. A child with a physical dis¬ 
ability is just that - a child or person first and 
foremost. It should be the person that stands out 
to you - not the disability. 

One area not discussed which I feel is ex¬ 
tremely important is the preparation of the dis¬ 
abled youngster. A meeting with the child and 
his/her parents and the camp director is impor¬ 
tant. The family needs to find out about the 
camp, your philosophy of the program, staffing 
and decide if your camp will meet the needs of 
their child. The camp director must find out 
about the physical needs of the child as well as 
the child’s expectations, fears, interests, etc. 
Sounds like something you would do with any 
child considering your camp! The last thing you 
want is to find that you can’t meet the needs of 
the disabled child after he/she arrives at your 
camp. I have found that a curious mind which 
continually asks questions is very helpful. 

For camp directors attempting to integrate for 
the first time - the more detailed and clear 
See Camping: The Last Word - page 2 


19 





Canadian camping association 
association dcs camps du Canada 


SUITE 2 1006 AVENUE ROAD 
TORONTO ONTARIO M5M 3Z1 


VOL 36, NO. 2 
SUMMER 1984 
ISSN 008-3119 


SUPPORT AMATEUR 

SPORT 

ENCOURAGEZ IE $POR$ 

amateur 


r/o^ ■ 

( 15 YE’84 I \ r >;? 


C‘ 


• HE 





1915 

MISS JAMt MCCUTCHEON 
C/0 CAMP T AIN I NGU 

HUNTSVILLE ON 
POA 1K 0 


Jeunesse en forme Canada 

un programme de tests de condition physique 
pour les jeunes de 7 a 17 ans 

Pourquoi participer a 
Jeunesse en forme Canada? 



Canada 


• Facile a administrer 

• Minimum d’equipement necessaire 

• Normes de performance nationales 
utilisees a des fins de comparaison 

• Prix 

-excellence (ecusson et certificat), 
ecussons or, argent et bronze 

-carte d'identite format porte- 
monnaie 

-Certificat de participation a 
chacun des groupes qui participe 
au programme 

• Gratuit! 

-le programme, les tests et les prix 
sont tous gratuits 

Vous voulez en savoir davantage? 

• Ecrivez a: Jeunesse en forme Canada 

365-ouest avenue Laurier 
Ottawa (Ontario) ’ 

K1A 0X6 



Canada 


Canada Fitness Award 

a fitness testing program for youth 
7 to 17 years 

Why participate in the 
Canada Fitness Award? 

• Easy to administer 

• Little equipment needed 

• National Performance Standards for 
comparison 

• Awards 

-excellence (crest and certificate), 
gold, silver, bronze crests 
-wallet-size I.D. card 
-Certificate of Participation to each 
youth group using program 

• Free! 

-all program, testing and award 
materials are free of charge 

Want more information? 

• Write to: Canada Fitness Award 

365 Laurier Ave. W. 

Ottawa, Ontario 
K1A 0X6 


■ * 


Gouvemement du Canada Government of Canada 

Condition physique et Sport amateur Fitness and Amateur Sport 


1+ 


Government of Canada 
Fitness and Amateur Sport 


Gouvemement du Canada 
Condition physique et Sport amateur 


20 







