
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 


CANADIAN CAMPING 


Fvbruaru 

mu (i 

TORONTO, CANADA 


Flag Raising at first 
Children’s International 
Summer Village at 
Lions' Youth Camp, 

Lake Belwood, Fergus, Ont. 























Manufacturers 

of 

the famous 

Quickset 

Quality 

Food Products 
for Camps 
anywhere 
in Canada 

Jelly Powders 
Pudding Powders 
Pie Fillings 
Instant Puddings 
Cake Mixes 
Table Syrup 
Fruit Beverages 
Hot Chocolate 
Flavorings 
Soup Bases 
Marmalades 
Jams 

Fruit Pie Fillings 
Camp-Rite 


‘Tripping at Your Camp?’ 

USE 

camp- me 

Economical, ready - to - go food units 
packed in 4 man water-proof packages. 
Just add water, cook, and your meal is 
ready. 

Because of the increased interest in 
Camp-Rite we have added more dinners, 
desserts and dehydrated vegetables, de¬ 
hydrated meats and a delicious de¬ 
hydrated beef stew. 

You will also be agreeably surprised at 
the prices. 

Ask the "Gibbons Man" for more 
information on Camp-Rite or write to us 
direct. 


GIBBONS FOODS LTD. 

49 ADVANCE ROAD TELEPHONE 239-1421 

TORONTO 18, CANADA 




'Toronto, Canada , February 1966 


Dear, what's 
a six-letter word 
for security? 


That’s easy. E-a-t-o-n : s. Most Canadian women know that. 
It’s also a six-letter word for confide nee, convenience, 
protection, quality, friendliness and selection. 

there’s so much for r on at E ATO N S 



TRAVEL 



Around The World 

Join the 5th Anniversary event of the 
Camping Friendship Round the World 
Tours. Enjoy 60 unforgettable days 
with a small, congenial group in the 
Fall of 1966. The “different” itinerary 
includes areas off the beaten tourist 
track, in addition to well-known major 
centers. 

Visit exotic Hawaii, the Fiji Islands. 
New Zealand, Australia. Ceylon. Greece. 
Italy. Switzerland. France, Netherlands, 
England. 

Enjoy specially arranged meetings with 
camp directors of other lands. Swap 
ideas for unusual camp programs. Make 
contacts with new staff personnel. 

Your tour conductors will be Mar\ 
and Howard Galloway, editors and 
publishers of CAMPING MAGAZINE. 
Size of group is limited, so please 
write now for colorful new brochure 
and full information. 

Camping Friendship 
Round the World 

Room 101, 5 Mountain Ave., 

N. Plainfield, NJ. 07060 



AMERICAN CAMPING 
ASSOCIATION PUBLICATIONS 

Camp Administration Course Outline—For 
Colleges and Universities. A guide for 
courses in camp administration at the grad¬ 
uate level. 29p. 75c 

Camp Administrative Forms and Suggested 
Procedures in the Area of Personnel. In- 
eluded is an outline of suggested minimum 
content for a personnel manual, sample job 
descriptions, staff contracts, staff appraisal, 
and the A.C.A. Camp Staff Application 
Form. :$0p. 50c 

Camping, What Is It 7 Betty Lyle. A 
very fine discussion of a basic philosophy, 
certain techniques and skills and certain 
values which are. or should be, inherent in 
all good camping. 8p. 30c 

A Code of Ethics for Camp Directors In 
that the moral training of youth is one of 
the major responsibilities of the summer 
camp. A.C.A. has adpoted this code which 
is available on green, parchment-like stock 
suitable for framing. 25c 

Conservation of the Campsite A book 
which all camp directors and administrators 
should carefully study. It deals not with 
conseravtion programming, but with the 
steps a camp should take to conserve and 
improve the natural features of the camp. 
1«1». 75c 

..Convention Highlights A.C.A. Monograph. 
A stimulating and thought provoking selec¬ 
tion of the addresses given at the 1962 AC.A. 
National Convention. Focus of the selections 
is on (a) the camper, (hi the site on which 
the camper lives and works, (c) camp 
leadership and (d) camp program. $2.00 

A.C.A. Camp Leadership Kit The kit. 
designed for use in pre-camp and in-camp 
training, consists of four excellent A.C.A. 
monographs. CAMPING FOR AMERICAN 
YOUTH: CAMPING IS EDUCATION; 
CAMPER GUIDANCE and CAMP. THE 
CHILD’S WORLD. These provide the coun¬ 
selor with a philosophy of camping, i.e. 
relating the values which may he derived 
from camping to the current trends and 
pressures 

The four monographs come in a student 
portfolio which may be used as file for 
these and other counselor aids. Single copy 
$2.50; 2-24 copies $2.00; 25 or more $1,50. 

Name . 

Street . 

City, Zone, Prov. 

Amount Enclosed: $. 

Please Send Invoice . 

American Camping 
Association 

BRADFORD WOODS 

MARTINSVILLE — INDIANA 


36 


Canadian Camping 










REDBOOK MAGAZINE 

Effective with the April 1966 issue 
Redbook's base circulation goes to 4,300,000 
Camp Directory in issues January thru’ June 

Redbook readers have confidence in the 
summer programs presented in this Directory. 

For information and rates address: 

Betsy Garrison, Director 


230 Park Avenue 


REDBOOK'S CAMP DEPARTMENT 
ue New York, New York 10017 

(2121-983-8790 


4*4# 4*4 4*4 A* 


* «,« *.• •,« «,* *,* #.* ♦.» »,♦ *.* m ».* v MMK « KM M M KKKKK !•!!•!!•!> 

****** 4*4 *4 4 4 4 4 4*4 * • 4 4 4 « 444«4 44444 4 *44444444444 ***44444 4*4*44#4#4%4 


s FREE ,rs BIG ,rs NEW 

It's Canada's Most Complete Leathercraft Catalog 

IT’S TANDY'S NEW BIG 100 PAGE CATALOG 
PLUS EXCITING NEW CAMP SUPPLEMENT 
RUSH COUPON TODAY TO: 

TANDY CLARKE & CLARKE 


P.O. BOX 340-AG 


BARRIE, ONTARIO 



Toronto, Canada, February 1966 









WANTED-CAMP DIRECTOR 

FOR 

WINNIPEG YWCA CAMP KINNAIRD 

located near Kenora in Lake of the Woods area 

Period: 

May 1st to August 31st. 1966. 

Salary: 

$1,000 to $1,;>00. according to qualifications and 
experience. 

Apply to: 

Miss Phyllis R. Trotter. Executive Director 

447 Webb Place 

Winnipeg 2. Manitoba 

Also required: 

Camp Directors for Calgary and Saskatoon 

YWCA Camps. 


For information write to: 


MISS LAURA VAN EVEREY 


Director Personnel YWCA 
f)71 Jarvis Street 

Toronto 5, Ontario 




PUS FOR CAMPS 

Wise camps use Stafford's pie filling and bake a 
pie in HALF THE TIME. Stafford's pie filling is 
ready-to-use. Just pour it in the pie shell, and pop it 
in the oven. Out comes a tender, flaky pie no camper 
can resist, with his favorite filling—pineapple, mince 
meat, raisin, raspberry, blueberry, cherry, apple, boysen- 
berry, apricot, peach or strawberry and rhubarb 

Do as the wise cooks do. Keep your campers full and 
happy with Stafford's delicious fruit pies. 



iStaflonf 

tOTSENBIRRV 511 


Stafford 


Qzanora foods limited 

branches- 37 Hanna Ave. - Toronto 

MONCTON, MONTREAL, WINNIPEG, CALGARY, EDMONTON, VANCOUVER 


38 


Canadian Camping 




CANADIAN CAMPING 

Vol. 18 FEBRUARY. 1966 No. 2 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 


A Seed is Sown 


.John Beiges 

41 

O.C.A. Brief. 


.Bruno Morawetz 

43 

Among Ourselvi 

L‘S. 

.Kirk Wipper 

46 

Sermons Under 

the Sun. 

.Dr. G. MacGregor Grant 

53 

Why I Direct a 

Camp. 

.Eanswvthe Flvnn 

f>6 

Camp Tonakela 

Visited 

.Adele Ebbs 

58 


CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 

4036 West 30th Ave., 

Vancouver 8, B.C. 


Honorary President 

Past Presidents 

Taylor Statten, Toronto 

Dais L. Gass, Montreal 

Anne I. Vail, Montreal 

W. E. (Ted) Yard, Sault Ste. Marie 

Irwin Haladner, Toronto 

F. M. VanWagner, Montreal 

Kenneth H. Murray, Montreal 

Don Smith, Edmonton 

President 

Mrs. May Brown, Vancouver 

Senior Vice-President 

Gordon McNab, Vancouver 

Vice-Presidents 

Miss Marilyn Fane, B.C. 

Mrs. H. Roessingh, Alla. 

Robert Douglas, Man. 

Mrs. J. H. Ebbs, Ont. 

Robert Lazanik, Que. 

Rev. David Hartry, N.S. 


Miss Mary Edgar 
Executive Secretary 

Mrs. Charles (Peggy) Etchell 
3845 West 14th Ave., 
Vancouver 8, B.C. 

Secretary 

Rev. Ernie T. Lorcen 
167 West 26th Avenue, 
Vancouver 10, B.C. 

Treasurer 

Richard Caswell 
New Westminster 

Publisher, Canadian Camping 
Fred Haiblen, 

170 Bloor St. West, Toronto 
924-7117 

Editor 

Mrs. A. E. Harshaw, 

Apt. 704, Rideau Towers, 

35 Thorncliffr Park Drive, 
Toronto 17 


Editorial Committee — 

Don Groff, Chairman, Joyce Bertram. Eanswythe Flynn. Margaret Govan, Bruno 
Morawetz, Kirk Wipper. Ted Yard. 


“CANADIAN CAMPING” IS PUBLISHED FOUR TIMES A YEAR BY THE CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 
CO. FOR THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION AT 170 BLOOR ST. WEST, TORONTO, ONTARIO. SUB¬ 
SCRIPTION PRICES: MEMBERSHIP IN THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION INCLUDES CANADIAN 

CAMPING: TO NON-MEMBERS. 73 CENTS PER COPY. $2.73 PER YEAR, SS.OO FOR THREE YEARS. 

AUTHORIZED AS SECOND CLASS MAIL, POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT. OTTAWA. ONT.. AND FOR PAY¬ 
MENT OP POSTAGE IN CASH. 


Toronto , Canada , February 1966 


39 
















I 




2 , 000 , 000 % : 
families; 
With CHILDREN 



Successful camp directors know that 
the path to desirable and responsive 
prospects for enrollment leads straight 
to Parents' Magazine—the only con¬ 
centrated audience of families with 
children! 

Young mothers and fathers look to 
Parents’ lor guidance in rearing healthy, 
happy children. They accept the author¬ 
ity of its editorial content; they believe 
in the integrity of its advertisers. 


Help in camp selection is among 
Parents' most important services. 

I or qualified inquiries, and enrollments, 
place your message and \ our confidence 
in Parents' Magazine. For rates and 
details, write or phone Josephine E. 
Chrenko, Director School and Camp 
Department, parents’ magazine, 

52 Vanderbilt Avenue, 

New York, N. Y. 100 J 7—2 /2-685-4400 


Circulation ABC OUaRaNteeP 


Extra QUALITY PAYS . . . 


and that is verified by the confidence of our customers, which continues 
year after year. 

Foodcraft specialized foods offer many unique advantages and they sum 
up to what you want—distinctive quality meals at minimum cost. 

Write for information and samples now while you have time for thorough 
examination. No obligation whatever. 


• Specialized Foods 


• Specialized Service 


FOODCRAFT LABORATORIES LIMITED 

260 Richmond Street East Toronto 2, Ontario 

Telephone: 368-8088 

DIRECT SERVICE ACROSS CANADA 
Member — Canadian Camping Association 


40 


Canadian Camping 






















A SEED IS SEWN 

by John Berges 


The Children’s International Village movement began in 
1951 as a psychological experiment in international living. 
Since that time it has grown from its Cincinnati home to 
an international organization encompassing thirty-five member 
nations, and membership in UNESCO. 

In 1957, CISV came to Canada . The Canadian associa¬ 
tion with its three chapters in Waterloo County, Ottawa and 
Vancouver Island reached milestones in 1964 and 1965 when 
it hosted its first and second villages after many years of send¬ 
ing delegations to other countries . 

John Berges, the author, directed these two villages. A 
high school English teacher in Kitchener, he was an adult 
delegate to the U.S. village in 1958 and now is chairman of 
the Waterloo County chapter . 


Imagine for a moment the following 
group of exhuberant campers—Lyndon 
Johnson, Aleksei Kosygin, Ho Chi 
Minh, Ian Smith, Martin Luther King, 
Chow En Lei, etc. — living, eating, 
sleeping, swimming, sharing together at 
an age before prejudices and ideologies 
have had an opportunity to form and 
harden. One cannot help but wonder 
about the present state of the world if 
such an experience could have actually 
happened many years ago. 

For the past two summers in Canada, 
a dedicated group of men and women 
have been striving to make just such 
a dream become a reality. In August, 
1964, at Camp Bel wood, near Fergus, 
Ontario, and in July-August, 1965, at 
Shawinigan Lake on Vancouver Island, 
miniature United Nations camps were 
held, comprised of eleven-year-old pint- 
sized ambassadors from Denmark, Nor¬ 
way, Sweden, France, Japan, Mexico. 
Guatemala, Philippines, India, Holland. 
United States and Canada. In my role 
as camp director for these villages, I 
borrowed a phrase from our C.I.S.V. 
song and it became the guiding prin¬ 
ciple behind all our activities—“to 
learn through the things we do, how 
alike am I to you.” 


A normal day’s round of activities 
continually stressed creativity, sports¬ 
manship and group participation in an 
effort to foster the blending and inter¬ 
play of personalities. Within a few days 
our crafts programme provided a most 
unusual wallpaper of art, ranging from 
fire-breathing dragons of Japan to 
Viking ships of Scandinavia. In sports, 
soccer was popular, but the Olympic 
Day stole the show. Although we had 
the perfect opportunity to conduct the 
events with country competing against 
country, national competition was 
avoided and active participation was 
the only requirement. 

Once a week a parliament session was 
held in which the children expressed 
their opinions on such topics as the 
purpose of this camp, what he had 
learned from this experience, cabin 
partners, tidiness, work projects, and 
general program. Their keen observa¬ 
tions and constructive suggestions indi¬ 
cated perceptive minds, and their 
recommendations were fulfilled wher¬ 
ever possible. A sampling of their com¬ 
ments would include: “The big thing 
I’ve learned here is that we don’t look 
alike outside but we all are inside”: 
“I don’t think we should tease Kiyoshi 


Toronto, Canada , February 1966 


41 


because he wears a ‘belly-warmer* ”; 
“why do wc have to go to bed before 
the sun does?”; “I think we should 
change cabin partners every few days 
and also sit in a different place at 
every meal. That way we’ll get to know 
each other”; “the French delegation 
would rather have, water than milk at 
meals”—and so it went; all in demo¬ 
cratic fashion. 

National Days provided additional 
highlights. Each country was given one 
day on which its flag, anthem, customs, 
menu and culture were respected. No 
one would ever forget eating with chop¬ 
sticks, consuming goat cheese or hot 
tamales, or being entertained by the 
Swedish Santa Lucia ceremony or the 
Philippine Bamboo Dance. Poor Cana¬ 
dians! Are apple pie and cheese, or 
bacon and sausages really Canadian? 
Does singing “The Maple Leaf For¬ 
ever” or performing a skit really con¬ 
stitute our culture? Well, wc tried! 

Trips to surrounding points of inter¬ 
est were conducted each week. In 
Ontario, Niagara Falls was most enjoy¬ 
ed, especially when forty “penguins”, 
as they called themselves, went beneath 
the Falls in raincoats. Personally, I’ll 
never forget the great distress of the 
Japanese children who, in trying to buy 
souvenirs to take home, could find 
nothing that wasn’t “Made in Japan”. 
And certainly one can appreciate my 
concern when I lost a Guatemalan bov. 
who spoke no English, in the Parlia¬ 
ment Buildings in Victoria. He was 
finally discovered wandering through a 
nearby restaurant, hungrily eyeing the 
various diners’ plates. 

Frequently the question of a lan¬ 
guage barrier arises. But from the 
moment of first meeting when suitcases 
are emptied of souvenirs and then 
immediately refilled with traded items 
until that saddest of all days, camp 
break-up, a series of gestures, facial ex¬ 
pressions. and meaningful grunts pro¬ 


vides all the communication necessary. 
Certainly each child develops a modest 
new vocabulary, but a winning smile 
speaks louder than words among those 
for whom racial differences and cold 
wars are unknown factors. 

Perhaps a few illustrations might be 
in order for anyone who may be won¬ 
dering how lasting or truly significant 
an impression can be made at eleven 
years of age. At the 1964 village, the 
father of one of the Indian delegates 
was visiting in the U.S. He called on 
us and insisted on taking his boy to 
England and the European capitals so 
that his son might enjoy these sights on 
the trip home. I shall never forget 
Sunil’s reply, “Daddy, I’d rather stay 
here with my new friends.” He stayed. 

Writing in our camp newspaper, one 
young lad composed the following 
poem: 

“In any country you may see, 

The children all act differently, 

But even though the habits change. 

Inside we really are not strange.” 

Scott from Canada has visited his 
friend in Mexico. One Norwegian, nick¬ 
named “Oogie”, has been to see “Chop 
Chop” in Japan. Letters are exchanged 
every week. A volcano disaster recently 
in the Philippines was not a distant 
event but occurred in “Pilar’s country”. 
An election in France affects “Olivier’s 
family”. And so it goes. Perhaps another 
line from our C.I.S.V. song best ex¬ 
presses our aims and philosophy. 

“Sow a seed and plant a tree 

Beneath whose branches there may be 

All the nations gathered free.” 

The seed has been sown and it is 
our hope that the first and second 
Canadian Children’s International 
Summer Villages will not be just un¬ 
forgettable experiences for the one 
hundred participants, but rather the 
seeds from which an ever-increasing 
international family may spring. 


42 


Canadian Camping 



The Ontario Camping Community 
Speaks To Its Government 

by Bruno Morawetz, Ph.D.. 

Camp Ponacka 


It has been known for a long time 
that the future health of the nation 
depends on the, present health of its 
youth. Although this may have been 
true of all ages, there is no question that 
the youth of our age needs guidance, 
direction and challenge. 

With these objectives in mind, the 
Government of the Province of Ontario 
has set up a Select Committee on Youth 
under the chairmanship of the well- 
known hockey player Svl Apps and 
thirteen other members of the Ontario 
Legislature. 

The purpose of the committee was to 
conduct a searching enquiry into the 
needs of youth and into problems relat¬ 
ing to educational, recreational, cul¬ 
tural and employment opportunities for 
young people, and methods of assuring 
wider participation by youth in the life 
of the community. 

The committee held meetings in vari¬ 
ous centres of the Province and received 
a vast number of submissions, one of 
which was that of the Ontario Camping 
Association. 

There is no doubt that this submis¬ 
sion will be of interest to other Provin¬ 
cial Associations. It might even stimu¬ 
late them to make a similar submission 
to their governments, perhaps even 
to urge them to establish their own 
Select Committee on Youth. 

The brief sets forth the historical 
background of the Ontario Camping 
Association. It underscores the tremen¬ 
dous growth which the camping move¬ 
ment has experienced, and some of the 


reasons for this growth. The brief points 
out that during the depression years, 
the most widely recognized aspect of 
camping was the “fresh air” type which 
removed youth from the city streets to 
the more beneficial environment of the 
country. This image still persists in the 
minds of some but the brief points out 
that the present status of camping is a 
vastly different one. Camping has be¬ 
come a very special type of education 
through recreation and physical skills 
acquired at summer camps. Camping 
has a unique function to perform in the 
education of our young people. Instead 
of the hundred and forty thousand 
youngsters who now go to camp, the 
Ontario Camping Association points 
out that there is a potential of one and 
a half million youngsters who should 
have this priceless experience made 
available to them. Since camping per¬ 
forms such an important role in the 
broader field of education, the brief 
stresses that camping is a tremendous 
social force and should be vastly 
extended. 

A Serious Educational Venture 

The brief states that there are many 
special needs of growth which can be 
fulfilled through camping and that the 
Government should recognize and help 
to develop the vast potential in this 
field. The Government is urged to make 
every effort to support organized camp¬ 
ing and to make its benefits available 
to larger numbers. 

Modern life has given rise to a great 
number of pressures which are elabor- 


Toronto, Canada, February 1966 


43 





ated in the brief. There are academic 
pressures, the pressures of bigness which 
heighten the sense of personal insignifi¬ 
cance. There are pressures resulting 
from the state of flux in which an urban 
population lives; the home exerts a less 
stabilizing influence than before; the 
mass media present a picture of life in 
which the dollar Is worshipped and 
physical possessions are the status sym¬ 
bols. City life provides fewer oppor¬ 
tunities for relaxation and makes the 
individual more and more dependent 
on mechanical gadgets. Finally, there 
are the pressures which youth experi¬ 
ences from within with their attendant 
emotional difficulties. 

Values Inherent in Camping 

"‘Organized camping intelligently 
directed, can remove youth from all 
these pressures, and because of its very 
nature can make an inestimable and 
unique contribution to the life of youth. 
No other agency is in a position to pro¬ 
vide a Living Experience in a controlled 
environment, twenty-four hours a day 
over an extended period of time under 
leaders whose aims are directed to the 
growth of the individual youth as a 
whole person.” 

In a camp situation the needs for 
affection, belonging, independence, 
achievement, social approval and self¬ 
esteem can be fulfilled. “The values 
inherent in camping are many and 
varied but the greatest single value is 
the intimate day-to-day living with 
other people. This can offer a tremen¬ 
dous expansion of his world of ideas, 
of what others are like, what they think, 
how they feel and act and why. Cam]) 
exposes people to a wide variety of 
standards and personal values and can 
help to teach him tolerance for the 
views of others. Camp reveals a per¬ 
son’s true self with the veneer stripped 
away.” 

Since camp is a diminutive city, the 
camper can learn in a controlled setting 
the role he will have to play when he 


reaches adulthood and becomes a mem¬ 
ber of a political and social unit. He 
will learn to develop the feeling of 
group loyalty. Youth will be allowed to 
share in the making of decisions and 
in the taking on of responsibilities, he 
will get a foretaste of the meaning of 
rights and privileges. 

In a camp setting a youngster will 
learn the meaning of failure and he will 
learn that every failure is a stepping 
stone to maturity. He will experience 
the thrill of adventure, the pitting of 
man against nature, the thrill of dis¬ 
covery, the satisfaction of conquest, the 
stature gained from a job well done 
and the contentment arising from hard 
work. 

Camping provides one of the best 
settings for the teaching of water 
safety in all its aspects — swimming, 
canoeing and boating. Camping will 
teach a youngster to be resourceful, it 
will teach a broad range of recreational 
skills that he can use for the rest of his 
life. At camp he leaves behind him the 
spectator attitude and he becomes an 
active participant. In the camping 
atmosphere he is encouraged to be him¬ 
self, to be an individual and not just 
a sheep in the flock. 

“Nowhere else can youth learn so 
vividly the need for conservation, that 
this fabulous wealth of natural re¬ 
sources that we ; have inherited is not 
inexhaustible. Youth learns that we 
cannot keep taking, and taking without 
putting something back, or there will 
be nothing left of this inheritance. 
Youth also learns that the wondrously 
delicate balance of nature is only un¬ 
balanced by the meddling hand of man. 
If camping taught no other lesson than 
this, it would justify its role in the 
scheme of things.” 

Although the Ontario Government 
has taken many steps to establish a pro¬ 
gram of natural science outdoor educa¬ 
tion. the brief points out to the Govern- 


44 


Canadian Camping 



ment that this is another facet in which 
the camping movement is performing a 
valuable service. 

An experience at camp often changes 
the orientation of a youngster toward 
scholarship and educational values. 
“Often youth aspires to be like an 
admired and respected counsellor. We 
see many young people inspired to pro¬ 
gress in school because of the encour¬ 
agement they have received from their 
counsellor or from their desire to emu¬ 
late him.” 

Finally, it is pointed out that the 
spiritual values which are in danger of 
being crushed by a growing materialism 
can best be acquired in a camp setting. 
“God, who sometimes seems hard to 
find in the city, seems close at camp. 
Spiritual values are an integral part of 
the whole camp . . . one of our greatest 
aims is to keep alive a person’s inherent 
sense of wonder . . . the soul, like the 
body, lives by what it feeds on.” 

The Benefits to the Leaders 

It is not only the campers who 
benefit from camping but those young 
people from seventeen to twenty-five 
who serve as camp counsellors. For 
many young people this is their first 
real job and for many it is their first 
opportunity to discover their own 
canacities and to develop their latent 
abilities. It provides an opportunity 
for decision-making; it demands self- 
discipline; it exposes the young person 
to close personal inter-relationships for 
which he must summon co-operation 
and tolerance. A counsellor learns the 
rewards of putting aside self-interest 
and working in unity with the staff 
toward the accomplishment of a worth¬ 
while purpose. 

Especially on the staff level, many 
camps have found it possible to encour¬ 
age inter-cultural contacts by inviting 
counsellors from various ethnic groups 
and even from other countries to share 
in the life and work of their Canadian 
brethren. 


“It would be impossible to list all the 
benefits gained by the thousands of 
young people in the seventeen to 
twenty-five age group who serve as staff 
in our summer camps. Certainly, active 
personal involvement and leadership 
prepare youth for a richer, more useful 
and independent adulthood. We of the 
Ontario Camping Association know 
that many of our best citizens of the 
future will be those who come up 
through the ranks of our camps.” 

We come now to the most important 
part of the brief and it will therefore 
be reprinted in full. 

What Can the Ontario Government 
Do to Extend These Priceless 
Experiences to All Youth? 

The Ontario Camping Association 
presents the following Recommenda¬ 
tions which we believe will benefit 
children’s camping in Ontario. 

1. Recognition of the Ontario 
Camping Association as an educational 
body. We believe that children’s sum¬ 
mer camps, as defined by the Associa¬ 
tion, are educational institutions and 
should be so designated by the Provin¬ 
cial Government. They should be placed 
in a separate category and not grouped 
with tourist camps, motels and general 
resorts with reference to licensing and 
other Governmental Regulations. 

2. Standards Program — The On¬ 
tario Camping Association has officially 
accepted a program of “Desirable 
Camping Practices” as a condition of 
membership. The Government could 
facilitate the implementation of this 
accreditation program by providing 
financial assistance for— 

a. Seminars for Directors. 

b. Personnel for statistical survey 
and evaluations. 

3. Staff Training — The Ontario 
Camping Association has been training 
counsellors and camp directors for all 
types of camps through the Annual 

page 63 please 


Toronto , Canada , February 1966 


45 



AMONG OURSELVES 


/ his article is by no means a comprehensive summary of 
the life and work of Cecil Irwin. It is a series of notes and 
anecdotes which hopefully reveal a little of Canadian history, 
something of the frontier, but especially a glimpse of the unique 
character of a man of the woods and a friend of the forest. 

—Kirk A. W. Wipper 


Cecil Irwin was born on June 24th. 
1898 into a family with a strict Metho¬ 
dist background. He attended public 
and high schools in central Toronto 
“most regularly because his father was 
the first truant officer for the city”. 

In his boyhood days he recalls vividly 
his early summers being spent on the 
outskirts of the city. “Most people could 
hardly imagine rowing from the foot of 
Cherry Street to a camp on a beautiful 
sand bar on Ashbridge’s Bay, or driving 
a herd of cows, morning and evening, 
across the corner of Danforth and 
Broadview and down to pasture all 
day on what were known as the Don 
flats beneath the present Bloor viaduct 
which did not exist at that time.” Of 
course, “swimming in the river was a 
cooling pastime”, one which could 
hardly be contemplated now. 

Many memorable incidents can be 
dramatically recalled by “Cec” in those 
impressionable days of youth. Appar¬ 
ently, quarrelsome roosters caught his 
attention. “It was surprising to find out 
how utterly unsociable were the roosters 
from adjoining farms on Bayview Ave.. 
when introduced to each other in a 
small area of a barn floor.” Another 
incident would seem even more remote. 
“What a surprise for school kids in 
190.) to see a ten inch catfish flop out 
of a hydrant in front of what is now 
Central Technical School.” How in¬ 
comprehensible this would be with 
modern filtration, chlorination and 
fluoridation. 

The urge to be part of tin* frontier 
came about directly, close to the out¬ 


break of World War I, when “Cec” 
with other members of his family 
camped near Norland to work in the 
logging projects there. They were 
“joined by a gang of log drivers who 
filled the lake from shore to shore with 
logs on which the nimble might cross”. 
There is little doubt that “Cec” was 
among the nimblest. In his off-job 
hours, the lumberjacks’ tales around 
the campfire created interest in the 
general area where his camp was later 
to he established. 

In 1916, Cecil enlisted for the two 
year period of service as a naval wire¬ 
less operator in the first World War. 
Following his discharge he was able to 
pursue his great enthusiasm for the 
north and its forests. He graduated 
from the School of Forestry in 1922. 
One of his extra-curricular interests was 
wrestling, in which he became a for¬ 
midable contestant in the one hundred 
and eighteen pound class. 

During his university career he gained 
considerable experience in bush travel 
during the summers on forest reconnais¬ 
sance work for the Provincial Govern¬ 
ment and for three logging companies. 
His assignments took him to the Peta- 
wawa area in 1919; to Abitibi in 1920: 
Algonquin Park in 1921; Chapleau in 
1922, and Hornpayne in 1923. The 
most pleasant of these experiences was 
on the first forest survey of Algonquin 
Park in 1921, at which time he first 
came in contact with a canoe trip from 
an organized camp. 

In the spring of 1922 he made a 
decision that became the central con¬ 
tribution to his life work. He selected. 


46 


Canadian Campino 




for a family summer vacation spot, the 
central forty acres of what was later 
developed as Sherwood Forest Gamp. 

Following the 1923 term, when Cecil 
worked as a demonstrator in the 
Forestry Faculty at the University of 
Toronto, a whole new venture unfolded 
for him. He accepted a position in 
Quebec commencing in 1924 — one 
which allowed him to combine his for¬ 
mal training and interest in a major 
contribution to professional forestry. 

A most delightful description of 
Cecil's work was obtained from Dermot 
I. O’Gallagher, a Quebec land sur¬ 
veyor and a lifelong acquaintance of 
Cecil's, and later of Jean, who became 
Mrs. Chief in 1928. Jean Macdonald 
had come up from Nova Scotia to serve 
as General Secretary of the Quebec 
City Y.W.C.A. 

“Cecil came to Quebec about 1924 
to take charge of the inventory of Don- 
nacona Paper Company limits, some 
four hundred square miles in the 
Laurentide National Park—one of the 
most rugged areas in Canada east of 
the Rockies, and another large limit at 
Sault-au-Mouton on the North Shore 
of the St. Lawrence. 

“Although he had summer cruising 
experience and lecturing, too, at Toron¬ 
to University, yet he had three apparent 
handicaps. He knew only school-room 
French, had never worn snowshoes 
(our’s was a winter cruise) and lacked 
the stature one usually associates with 
‘Rugged Woodsmen’. In fact, on the 
job, rigged out in baggy homespun 
pants and a wide loose mackinaw 
topped by a jaunty, rakish cap, a bit 
oversize, his men dubbed him ‘The Kid’ 
(after Jackie Coogan). It did not take 
him long to show them that size is not 
important. He soon became quite adept 
on the snowshoes, but did have one 
painful experience. Climbing one of the 
stiff slopes which cruise lines invariably 
hit, he dug his snowshoe in for a foot¬ 
hold and hit the rock, his mocassin hit¬ 
ting the bar, uprooted the nail of his 


big toe. When we were giving first aid 
we found that his other toes on both 
feet were badly skinned by the harness. 
He seemed to think that this was ‘par 
for the course', and had to be endured. 
We fixed the toes up with birch bark 
sleeves, reinforced by adhesive tape— 
called them ‘napkin rings'. He was 
rather shy at talking French but was 
forced to overcome this when we re¬ 
fused to give him even one man who 
understood English. 

“Cecil’s work was marked by 
thoroughness and constant attention to 
the smallest detail, such as exploring 
and mapping lakes and timber stands 
well off his cruise lines, noting every 
feature which could possibly influence 
roads or logging operations. In summer 
when all our supply was by canoe and 
tumpline, Cecil often carried more than 
his own weight. I recall one canoe trip 
down the Jacques Cartier River late in 
the fall. The rapids were quite bad 
because ice had formed around all the 
rocks, threatening to tear our canvas 
canoe. 

“Another anecdote I like to tell is 
about a January morning when our two 
gangs were camped together. Before 
entering the cook’s tent for breakfast, 
Cecil read the thermometer hanging on 
the tent pole. It showed 35 below zero. 
After eating, his men scurried into their 
tent and huddled there in silence: 
usually they would be outside rigging 
their snowshoes and joshing each other. 
This time one could sense their think¬ 
ing: ‘Maybe he’ll decide it is too cold 
to work—we hope!’ Cecil came out, put 
on his snowshoes and again scanned the 
thermometer—the sun had begun to 
show and the mercury had risen slightly. 
Cecil spoke up in a loud cheery voice— 
‘Hurrah, boys, only 33 below—a little 
warmer—let’s go!' 

“During their ten years in Quebec. 
Cecil and Jean Irwin made a great 
number of friends among all ranks of 
our population with whom they keep 
in touch. On every return visit here 
page 50 please 


Toronto , Canada , February 1966 


47 


THE FAMOUS HOLLAND COT 



COT No. 10 

Height Spring 
Weight: 2 cots in 


carton 72 lbs. 


LOOK AT THESE GREAT FEATURES 

• No sharp edges or corners • No torn sheets 

• No maintenance and repairs • No injuries—safe 

• No folding parts • No links or helicals 

• No bolts and screws • No noise or squeaking 

IDEAL FOR POLYETHER MATTRESSES 
ON FINE GALVANIZED MESH WIRE 


[.. ".1 

NOW FINALLY! AVAILABLE IN CANADA: ; 

| BURRELL BEDDING CO. 

LULLABY PRODUCTS, INC. ' 

j 27-31 Davies Ave. 

2350 Delormier St. ' 

j Toronto 8, Ontario, Canada 

Montreal 24, Quebec, Canada ® 

1 

I 

! See Our Displays: \ 

j BOOTH 20 

BOOTHS 47 & 48 

ONTARIO CAMPING ASS'N 

QUEBEC CAMPING ASS'N ! 

5 Conference—March 17-19, 1966 

Conference—Feb. 24-27, 1966 , 

j The Inn on the Park, Toronto 

L.. 

Queen Elizabeth Hotel, Montreal . 


48 


Canadian Camping 




and BUNK BED 

THAT LASTS and LASTS 


CONVERTIBLE BUNK NO. 40 


ADAPTER 


CONVERTS 


With This Amazing New Adapter 
No Tools — No Bolts, Nuts and Washers 


SINGLE COTS 
easy to convert 
to double decker 


BUNK No. 40 WITH ADAPTER 

Height Upper Berth 4714" 

Space Between Berths 32" 


Weight Bunk in Carton 92 lbs. 
Height Lower Berth 1514“ 


"HOLLAND"® BED 
DISTRIBUTORS IN U.S 


NON CONVERTIBLE BUNK NO. 39 
OF SIMILAR CONSTRUCTION 


ACME WHOLESALERS, INC. 

5700 Federal Ave. 

Detroit, Mich. 48209 


BOURDON’S CAMP BEDDING DEPT 

96-98 Main St. 

Claremont, N.H. 03743 


NORTHERN MATTRESS CO 

60 Western Ave. 

Waterville, Me. 04901 


NIEUWSTADT IMPORT 

P.O. Box 73 

Cambridge, Mass. 02140 
Tel: 617-876-7435 (before noon) 


CANVAS SPECIALTY MFG. 

7200 E. Bandini Blvd. 

Los Angeles, Calif. 90022 


SANCO EQUIPMENT CO, 

24 E. 13th St. 

New York, N.Y. 10003 


BUNK No. 39 30” x 75” 

Height Lower Berth 15V**' Weight: Bunk in Carton 

Height Upper Berth 47V*” Space Between Berths 


DEVITA COMPANY 

645 Morton Lane 
Caselberry, Fla. 32707 


Toronto, Canada, February 1966 


they make it a duty to visit many of 
us. Cecil lias never forgotten any man 
who worked with lnm and when he is 
in Quebec he takes long motor trips 
into the country to visit these old-timers. 
Between field jobs here, Cecil took 
time to write his .thesis for admission to 
the Quebec Association of Forest Engi¬ 
neers and has always attended their 
conventions. 

“Although Cecil and his brother 
John are no longer practising engineers 
they take an active interest in all pro¬ 
fessional matters, particularly in any 
legislation concerning Conservation. 

“Cecil's remarkable wife, Jean, de¬ 
serves much praise for her wonderful 
companionship and unselfish loyalty to 
a very busy man. Sherwood Forest 
Camp was a venture uppermost in his 
mind over the years. In their first 
winter there, getting out the logs for 
the first building, they tented out and 
often had to take their canned goods 
into their sleeping bags to keep them 
from freezing. Their son, David, an 
infant then, wintered with them. Jean 
is indeed a Pioneer Woman of Canada 
and was a real ‘Camp Mother' to 
several generations of youngsters at the 
famous Sherwood Forest Camp which 
they recently closed after thirty-one 
years of successful operation. 

“To sum up, I already said that Cecil 
Irwin is a good Forest Engineer, as his 
confreres will attest; but perhaps the 
true calibre of the man shows in the 
way his men regard him: Their judg¬ 
ment of him is ‘II est Parmi les 
MeilleursV' 

Following the Donnacona experience, 
Cecil served for four years, commencing 
in 1929, as general inspector for the 
Laurentian Forest Protective Associa¬ 
tion, an organization representing 
twenty-eight companies, for the protec¬ 
tion of their twelve thousand square 
miles of timber limits along the north 
shore of the St. Lawrence. The forest 
tracts extended as far east as Shelter 
Bay, and also northwest of Lac St. Jean. 
Within that region was included limits 


of the Quebec North Shore Paper Com¬ 
pany, employer of a young forest engi¬ 
neer, Paul Provenchcr, who has become 
in recent years well-known to the On¬ 
tario Camping Association. 

Cecil has always maintained a keen 
interest in his forestry* associations. He 
is a member of the Canadian Insti¬ 
tute of Forestry, Ontario Professional 
Foresters Association, Corporation of 
Forest Engineers of the Province of 
Quebec and still carries a Quebec Log 
Scalers' license. 

Even after Sherwood Forest Camp 
was opened, Cecil faithfully maintained 
a continuing interest in forestry by per¬ 
mitting the camp facilities to be used 
each spring or fall from 1935 to 1955 
for practice camp for the University of 
Toronto students, Department of Lands 
and Forests courses for log scalers, and 
courses for forest rangers. Sherwood 
Forest Camp was, in fact, the fore¬ 
runner of the present Ontario Forest 
Rangers School near Dorset. As recently 
as 1961 Cecil was invited to give in¬ 
struction in canoe travel to students at 
the Ranger School, a task which he 
relished and effectively communicated 
to the youthful foresters in attendance. 

Cecil saw in Sherwood Forest Camp, 
which he opened in 1934, another 
opportunity to share his experience and 
insight into forestry. He believed that 
there was “a legacy of outdoor experi¬ 
ence to be passed on to younger genera¬ 
tions", part of which was a knowledge 
of how to live and travel in the bush. 
“Amidst ideal natural surroundings 
were opportunities for all-round de¬ 
velopment of youth." This theme the 
“Chief and Mrs. Chief’ expressed 
throughout their thirty-one years of 
directing Sherwood Forest. 

Throughout the life of the camp, 
Cecil and Jean Irwin lived on the 
campsite. It is of special interest that 
almost all development and construc¬ 
tion was carried out with materials 
from the camp grounds. This made the 
whole camp operation a very closely 
knit undertaking, and led to a unique 


50 


Canadian Camping 


kind of respect for the camp and its 
purpose by campers and staff. 

Because of his smaller, ligliter 
physique, Cecil began early in his life 
to make a careful study of the most 
effortless ways to carry out the physical 
tasks involved in a very strenuous life. 
He was an adaptable, creative inventor. 
The staff members of Sherwood vividly 
recall his use of a model T Ford which, 
coupled with a block and tackle, was 
used for a fantastic variety of jobs. The 
playing field was cleared with it; roots 
were wrenched from the ground; and 
if it stuck en route to Kinmount, Cecil 
would pull himself out. Under all sorts 
of conditions he continued to make the 
most of a challenge. He also recognized 
the importance of taking the oppor¬ 
tunity to rest and recuperate, which 
“paid off in many occasions of unavoid¬ 
able, prolonged exertion”. 

Len Chellcw, who started at Slier- 
wood Forest as sports director but soon 
became programme director, recorded 
the Chiefs love for climbing trees. This 
reflected his gift for participating in 
tests of strength and agility. Even now, 
the Chief engages in fitness activities 
which would make a man half his age 
think twice. 

Another characteristic which is evi¬ 
dent throughout the camp is Cecil’s 
consistent attention to detail in all 
aspects of buildings and facilities. 
Whenever a project was finally under¬ 
taken it was bound to be well done. He 
also respected fine craftsmanship by 
others. Harry Gauthier, an excellent 
artistic craftsman, produced some camp 
fittings such as the totem pole, or the 
boys’ prayer inscription which the Chief 
has always appreciated. Yet Cecil did 
not seek the same precision in program¬ 
ming. He was willing in this part of 
camp life to give full rein to the staff 
charged directly with that responsi¬ 
bility. In fact he generally was loath to 
occupy the centre of attention in main 
camp events feeling, no doubt, that 
interference by him would dampen the 
success of such occasions. 


Auction sales caught the Chiefs 
imagination. He seemed to be quite 
unable to resist attending them, and 
inevitably came back with some unusual 
purchases. Almost always these found 
an imaginative application in the camp 
programme. Gigs and other wagons are 
the most remembered examples of his 
acquisitions. 

The Sherwood Forest Christmas 
Camp ran for many years when the 
camp population was still small enough 
to accommodate such a winter venture. 
The log cabins and the main lodge loft 
were ideal for the overnight require¬ 
ments. Chief and Mrs. Chief were in 
their element with horses and sleighs, 
skis, snowshoes, skates and outdoor 
cooking which made the programme. 
Mr. and Mrs. Len Chellew, who assist¬ 
ed in the winter camp, described the 
Chief as being fully alive and virtually 
brimming over with enthusiasm during 
those memorable Christmas weeks 
which terminated with a New Year’s 
Day dinner. 

Throughout his career Cecil revealed 
a great love for his wilderness neigh¬ 
bours. He delighted in studying animals 
and birds, sometimes live-trapping and 
making pets of them. Many staff and 
campers remember, for example, the 
crow with the damaged wing. The 
Chief splinted the wing and then 
cared for the crow which soon became 
a pet around the camp. One of its 
unusual habits was to try to steal the 
ping-pong ball from the table tennis 
table whenever a game was under way. 
Another was to roost quietly in the top 
branches of tall trees and then dive 
bomb campers who walked unawares 
along camp trails. Often the Chief 
would watch such antics with great 
delight, from a concealed vantage point 
nearby. 

During another summer the “Chief” 
raised five pet skunks which stayed at 
camp all summer and afforded every¬ 
one present a magnificent study of wild¬ 
life. This enthusiasm logically led to a 
deep concern for the welfare and pres- 


Tor onto , Canada , February 1966 


51 


ervation of his wild friends. Locations 
of loons’ nests were well-known to him 
and he soon realized that fluctuating 
water levels manipulated by man played 
havoc with nesting sites. Later he 
observed that further damage was 
imposed on the loon by early use of 
motor boats whose exaggerated wake 
wafted the precious eggs into the water. 
He worked hard to do something about 
situations of this kind, and challenged 
individuals and agencies, both private 
and governmental, to do something 
abqut it. 

In his own words he described that 
symbol of the north, the loon, in terms 
that arc obviously sensitive and under¬ 
standing. “So often when stealthily 
approaching remote lakes to scan the 
shore for deer or moose or other forest 
dwellers, the hollow shrill ‘Ha, Ha, Ha’ 
of this sentinel of the wild has disclosed 
one’s presence, frequently to be followed 
by the companion cries, ‘a-loo-oo-a’ and 
‘ee-er-ee, ee-er-ee, ee-er-ee’. What more 
jubilant sound does nature offer than 
the cries of sheer delight when young 
loons are hatched? A sight to sec is 
the young, cruising on the back of the 
parent for the first few days, gaining 
strength and receiving instruction, while 
from time to time the parent submerges 
leaving the young to sink or swim. 
Again on sleepy autumn days, when 
sometimes as many as a dozen will 
assemble, the antics of these natural 
clowns, screaming, diving, chasing and 
standing upright with wings flapping, 
while laughing uproariously, gives them 
a prominent place in nature’s list of 
entertainers. 

“Sometimes they have their prob¬ 
lems, ‘as when one was startled in 
shallow water and dived with such 
force that its head had to be released 
from the mud’. Another was seen ‘in a 
desperate predicament with a clam 
clamped over its bill; no laughing 
matter, it couldn’t laugh!’ 

“But no problem has been so serious 
to the loon as those created by man. It 
is hoped that the form of a loon adorn¬ 


ing a comparatively recent Canadian 
postage stamp will not prove to be an 
inadvertent memorial to this rapidly 
vanishing native of our land of many 
waters.” 

No more fitting tribute could be 
made to Cecil Irwin than to launch a 
serious programme of conservation, 
wild life and woodsmanship education 
in all our camps. 

Living almost year-round at camp, 
it was inevitable that Cecil Irwin should 
take root in his community. For several 
years in die mid-forties, municipal 
school board problems occupied some 
of his time and energy. In 1948, when 
a Haliburton County High School area 
was organized, he became the appointed 
representative of the municipality. He 
also served as Chairman of the Board 
from 1949 to 1953, during which time 
the new school was erected. According 
to “Cec” participation in several other 
local projects “helps to keep him out 
of mischief’. 

One of his recent interests has been 
to travel, in some cases to remote 
places. This has enabled him to “form 
some ideas of how other people live, 
and to appreciate how fortunate we 
have been in this country”. 

Cecil is grateful for many things but 
his most eloquent tribute is to Mrs. 
Chief, who “throughout all these years 
endured with unbounded energy and a 
saving sense of humour, and never 
failed to step into a gap and ably face 
every emergency with initiative and 
zeal”. 

At the close of the 1964 season Sher¬ 
wood Forest Camp was officially closed, 
with the retirement of the Chief and 
Mrs. Chief. However, all of us who 
know them realize that they will always 
be occupied in projects directed to the 
welfare and happiness of others. Their 
influence has reached far and wide 
through all the boys and staff and 
friends who have been associated with 
them through so many years of success¬ 
ful camping. _ # 


52 


Canadian Camping 


^turnons 


®nbcr tfje i£>utt 


by Dr. G. MacGregor Grant, Minister 

Rosedale United Church 

Toronto 


We are indebted to Kirk Wipper , Director of Camp 
Kandalore, who heard Dr. Grant’s sermons which stressed so 
vividly the need and responsibility for conservation. The 
Editorial Committee felt that if the sermon was reproduced 
in its entirety , it would serve as an invaluable reference to 
directors and staff when shorter talks on the same subject 
would be needed at camp. 


For the past 17 years, my sermon on 
the second Sunday of September has 
always had the same title, “Holiday 
Reflections”, and I have used it to 
review some of the moral and spiritual 
lessons I learned from various things I 
saw, heard and felt during my absence 
from Toronto. I am continuing this 
practice today. 

Apart from a brief trip across the 
American border, my holiday was spent 
in a cottage by a lake in Haliburton. 
It was surrounded by a forest of tall 
pines. The nearest neighbors were half 
a mile away and this supplied a delight¬ 
ful feeling of privacy and isolation, 
making it a good place to relax after 
the noise and hurry of the city. 

I could never quite make up my 
mind whether I preferred dawn or 
dusk. Dawn with its absolute stillness, 
a dead calm on the lake and the rising 
sun scattering the curtain of mist that 
lay across the water. Or dusk, with the 
last fires of sunset staining the western 
sky, fireflies flitting through the trees 
and a whipoorwill singing his evening 
song. Each hour of the day had its own 
peculiar charm. Tt is remarkable how 


our annual excursions to the out-of- 
doors provide an effective remedy for 
twitching nerves and a tired brain. 
Carolyn Davies explains part of the 
secret in this charming verse: 

“Forests are made for weary men 
That they may find their souls again. 
And little leaves are hung on trees 
To whisper of old memories. 

And trails with cedar shadows black 
Are placed there, just to lead men 
back 

Past all the pitfalls of success, 

To boyhood’s faith and happiness. 
Far from the city’s craft and fraud 
O Nature, lead me back to God.” 

It is curious how one’s senses, rela¬ 
tively dormant in the city, suddenly 
become alert when we move into the 
country. The sense of smell becomes 
more acute. One notices the tangy 
aroma of the wild strawberry, the heady 
fragrance of pine needles and the fresh, 
clean smell of the earth after a rainfall. 
One’s sense of hearing sharpens and 
one listens with delight to the ethereal, 
flute-like song of the Hermit Thrush. 


Toronto , Canada , February 1966 


53 


the chatter of a squirrel, the croaking 
of frogs or even the rustling leaves of 
the Trembling Aspen. I don’t under¬ 
stand how anyone can live close to 
Nature without a continual feeling of 
gratitude ’to“God who spread out ;iir 
these sources of joy for our benefit. He 
is a thankless ingrate who can contem¬ 
plate the dainty blossom of the Meadow 
Sweet or the shining benediction of 
the Pole Star without echoing the words 
of David the Psalmist: “O that men 
would praise the Lord for His goodness 
and for His marvellous works to the 
children of men.” 

Our cottage was located not far from 
Gamp Kandalore, a boys* camp oper¬ 
ated by Mr. Kirk Wipper who lives in 
this neighborhood and is known to 
many of you. I attended Sunday morn¬ 
ing services at the Kandalore Chapel 
on an island in Lake Kabaka and 
always found this extremely helpful. 
Worshipping God in the open-air with 
so many reminders of the Creator on 
every hand is an inspiring experience. 
I was much impressed by the reverent 
atmosphere of these services and the 
obvious effect which they had on the 
boys. One of their favorite hymns which 
seemed particularly appropriate in that 
setting was Mary Edgar’s hymn: “God 
who touchest earth with beauty, make 
me lovely too.” 

I went with the boys on a number 
of Wild Life hikes conducted by Mr. 
Wipper. I have never met a man with 
the wide and accurate knowledge of 
Nature he possesses, and his talks to 
the campers opened up for me a brand 
new world of fascinating interest. He 
told us how the butterfly secures nectar 
from the end of the flower which is 
too small to permit the butterfly’s entry. 
This insect has a slender tube about an 
inch long which it inserts into the 
blossom and uses as a kind of drinking 


straw. Then it rolls it up. into a coil 
which it carries under its chin. If you 
examine a butterfly under a magnifying 
glass you can sec this drinking straw 
and it is an exciting sight. 

Mr. Wipper explained how Nature 
has been using for centuries many of 
the so-called modern inventions of man. 
For example, we copied the parachute 
from plants like the dandelion and 
thistle. They rely on the wind to spread 
their seeds which are suspended from 
tiny umbrellas. Long before we invented 
the snorkel, the larvae of mosquitoes 
were using them. They have a breath¬ 
ing tube which enables them to remain 
under water and still obtain air. Any¬ 
one who has ever had a tooth extracted 
has blessed the man who invented the 
hypodermic needle and Novocaine. Per¬ 
haps the inventor got the idea from 
the Cicada Killing Wasp. This insect 
uses a hypodermic needle and its own 
particular brand of Novocaine to sting 
grasshoppers and to paralyze them into 
immobility. 

I am sure that one of the reasons 
why so many people are irreligious is 
because they have lost the sense of 
wonder. Surrounded by the impressive 
gadgets of a machine age, they believe 
that Science has solved all the riddles 
and provided the necessary answers. 
But those who take the time and the 
trouble to study Nature, recapture the 
feeling of awe in the presence of mys¬ 
teries which Science cannot explain. 
Why does the nest of every Crested 
Flycatcher contain a discarded snake 
skin woven into the fabric of the nest? 
The wings of a Monarch butterfly are 
so fragile that they must be handled 
with forceps to avoid breaking them. 
How can the Monarch fly from Toronto 
to Mexico on its annual Fall migration 
in the face of storms, sleet and similar 
hazards? Such baffling questions as 


54 


Canadian Camping 


these, pointing to the existence of a 
Supreme Creator, induce religious re¬ 
flections in every thoughtful person. 
Linnaeus, the distinguished Swedish 
botanist, tells in one of his books about 
the first time he ever examined the 
dainty Twin Flower under a magnify¬ 
ing glass. He makes this comment: “I 
saw God in His glory passing by and I 
bowed my head in reverence.” Nothing 
is better calculated to stimulate faith 
in God than a serious study of His 
handiwork in the world of Nature. 

I think everyone should develop a 
hobby. Hobbies divert the mind from 
life’s inevitable irritations and dis¬ 
appointments and if they’ are creative 
ones they supply endless pleasure and 
valuable information. My favorite 
hobby happens to be collecting and 
mounting wild flowers. This summer I 
found 72 I had not found before and 
this was a constant source of interest. 

One day, I noticed a particularly 
beautiful flower growing in a muddy 
swamp. I needed rubber boots to reach 
it so I decided to return the next day 
with the boots. It developed that I 
didn’t get back to the swamp for two 
weeks. By that time the blossom had 
faded and I lost the chance to add a 
rare specimen to my collection. 

As I stood beside that swamp a verse 
from the 103rd Psalm ran through my 
mind: “As for man, his days arc as 
grass; as a flower of the field so he 
flourisheth; for the wind passeth over 
it and it is gone and the place thereof 
shall know it no more.” Nothing illus¬ 
trates the swift passage of time like the 


flower. Especially spring flowers like the 
Hepatica and' the Blood Root which 
only last two or three weeks. You wait 
'all winter to see these charming blos¬ 
soms and then, in the twinkling of an 
eye, the bloom is over and they are 
gone. 

Here is a parable to teacli a lesson 
and it’s a good lesson to ponder as we 
begin another season of varied activity. 
The months and years rush by with 
alarming rapidity and opportunities 
which are not acted on immediately 
may never return. In the realm of 
spiritual afFairs there is so much we 
have not done that we ought to be 
doing. There are wrong things in our 
lives which should be put right by daily 
self-discipline.. We know people who are 
carrying heavy burdens and who need 
the helping hand we aren’t supplying 
because of our selffish absorption in our 
own concerns. We are well 'aware that 
our faith in God ought to be much 
stronger than it is and that the only 
way to develop such faith .is by regular 
periods of Bible study and prayer. But 
we procrastinate and ease our con¬ 
sciences by telling ourselves that we will 
do all these things at a later date. 

The Roman philosopher Seneca was 
fond of quoting the Latin motto: 
“Carpc diem”. It means “Seize the 
day” or “do it now”. And a greater 
than Seneca, our Lord Jesus Christ, 
said: “The night soon cometh when no 
man can work.” So, let us translate our 
high resolves into immediate action. 

Reading the daily paper on holiday 
I often thought of the sharp contrast 

page 60 please 


Toronto, Canada, February 1966 


55 


WHY I DIRECT 


A CAMP 


It has taken a number of years to 
come to the point where 1 could even 
contemplate this, article; and I doubt 
that in another quarter century I could 
do it full justice. Why one really directs 
a camp is a searching question at the 
best of times, isn’t it? To probe for 
honest answers is only to echo the aims 
of the hundreds of directors and senior 
stalT across this camping country of 
ours. Always must there be ideals, and 
high ones at that: but in order to 
achieve them, one’s feet must be on the 
ground ... in setting up the plan and 
buildings, buying supplies, hiring the 
staff, equipping the kitchen, waterfront 
and any other programme necessary 
for the achievement of objectives. 

Brigadoon came into being in the 
first place because of the teenage girl’s 
need for a special kind of challenge. 
Because this age group responds to 
warm friendliness and understanding, 
because teeners need to be sure of 
adults’ confidence in them, because they 
are eager and work as hard as they 
play, our staff can be chosen only with 
all this in mind. Our numbers are rela¬ 
tively small enough that a dozen staff 
can cope amply with these older girls. 
But . . . and it is a big but . . . each 
must be highly qualified in skills, abili¬ 
ties and the arts, as well as being 
thorough-going outdoor types. 

Our own challenge rises in our in¬ 
sistence on the highest standards in all 
departments, and this takes personal 
supervision, encouragement to those 
who might feci insecure, T.L.C. to the 
troubled, weal to the worried (at exam- 
result time!), help to the harried and 


ky Eanswythe Flynn 
Director , Camp Brigadoon 


comfort to the confused; this, to camp¬ 
ers, stalT and parents as well. 

I cannot say that our programme 
differs extensively from that of any 
other normal camp. It doesn’t. We 
stress Royal Life Saving, Canoeing and 
Red Cross Awards, not for the prize 
itscll. but for the satisfaction of accom¬ 
plishment, the completion of a project 
in a day when too many teeners seek 
the too-permissive, easy way out. 

Tripping, campcraft, woodsmanship. 
outdoor survival begin to be fun in our 
lives; for, while wc lake each project 
seriously, we don’t kill its enjoyment by 
counting its success in numbers of miles 
covered or total hours paddled at one 
stretch. Rather do we take time to 
examine the sights, sounds and scenes 
on the spot in our part of the country 
where phenomena of any kind are often 
hitherto unseen and therefore worthy 
of examination and research. 

Not long after tripping and hiking 
become part of regular activities, the 
Collecting game begins. Wc encourage 
the search for driftwood beyond camp’s 
borders, but campers and staff return 
to home base with samples of every¬ 
thing from shells to salamanders, from 
pebbles to mushrooms in season. There’s 
fun and learning in mutual examina¬ 
tion and identification and eventual 
deposit in our Nature Nook, or in 
Cairngorm for the rock samples. 

That both Dr. Ballard and myself 
and our respective families happen to 
be rockhounds from ’way back, merely 
adds to the excitement. All of us take 
to the mine and rock trails, and camp- 


56 


Canadian Camping 


crs naturally take after us, book, haver¬ 
sack, goggles, chisel and shovel in hand, 
learning with us as wc go, and quite 
at ease with our serious amateurism. 
The thrill of rock tumbling, polishing 
and jewellery - making? These take 
second place, for everyone learns first 
the nature of the rock or mineral, how 
it is found and where. More often 
than not, the stones campers wear as 
jewellery later on, have been gathered 
by their own hands on field trips. 

The depth of all that we try to 
accomplish with campers, the real 
reason for Brigadoon’s being at all, goes 
far and beyond surface activities. And 
here again, it’s not easy to put the 
finger on the thinking we try to stimu¬ 
late, and the sense of values we try to 
encourage with these young citizens . . . 
and stafT. 

Teaching . . . talking . . . discussing 
any topic may take place anywhere . . . 
at our Haggis Hail just after a meal 
perhaps; in the car on the way to a 
field trip or an exchange programme 
with another camp; during bedtime 
snack. At any free moment, opportuni¬ 
ties present themselves and we snatch 
them . . . gently ... to point up . . . 
what? . . . consideration for others, 
for instance; to teach prevention and 
awareness of symptoms in health rather 
than cure. Aspirin are not easily coine 
by in our Infirmary. Wc want to know 
what is causing the pain or ache before 
it becomes dulled beyond recognition. 
It’s a short step from this topic to the 
evils and dangers of pill taking, and, 
believe us, this kind of conversation 
today offers revelations beyond all 
imagination. 

At this age Teeners should acquire 
a healthy respect for the intricate 
mechanism of the human body that 
should not be battered about through 
neglect of basic health habits and in¬ 
adequate diet. We work with our camp¬ 
ers to help clear up many a minor ail¬ 


ment, poor complexion, faulty diet, and 
at least give them a reasonable expla¬ 
nation of the need for a reasonable 
amount of sleep . . . which we hope 
will return to their minds when they 
return home. 

We use our discussion periods, some¬ 
times our snatched half-hour together, 
to philosophize, to question whether or 
not money is an indication of absolute 
success, to show why one chooses friends 
and keeps them for their true worth 
rather than merely for outward indica¬ 
tions of Affluence; to show them the 
beauty of music; the music of words 
. . . and, conversely, the cruel use that 
can be made of them in slander and 
gossip and grapevine activities. We try 
to help them overcome aloneness: to 
take tlie word “Failure*’ out of their 
thinking; and over all instill faith 
enough to believe that life holds a 
pattern, each of us a part, and that 
Someone Else is in charge to give 
courage and succor when plans appear 
to take a direction other than our own. 

It sounds simple on paper. It isn’t, 
really. We must admit that there are 
moments when we wonder if wc do 
reach today’s young minds, open as they 
are to so many confusing theories, 
beliefs and cynicisms. Then, so often 
comes the breakthrough, when they 
leave for home mulling over the truths, 
the loyalties, the strengths, the sereni¬ 
ties that have been a part of their 
month’s stay; and when, later, they 
write to us of attitudes and confidences 
newly acquired at camp, we feel that 
perhaps our thoughts and words have 
found a resting place. 

All this can happen in a small camp 
such as ours, where each camper and 
her parents are known to us, each staff 
member a part of the Brigadoon family. 

Perhaps another generation will pass 
before we arc sure that wc have had 
any measure of success. At this moment 
. . . today ... we can only watch and 
hope and wait for the years to tell. 


Toronto , Canada , February 1966 


57 


TONAKELA VISITED 


Adele Ebbs, Canadian Chairman, 
Camp Tonakela Association. 


A good way of life that Canada can 
offer youth today is being shared with 
a community twelve miles from Madras 
in South India. During a recent visit 
to Asia we were shocked by the ex¬ 
tremely low standard of living and 
deprivation of individuals. South India, 
even the little wc saw of it in four 
days, was the worst area. But in the 
midst of it is Camp Tonakela. an oasis 
of peace and quiet, health and cleanli¬ 
ness, happiness and hope. It is a 
small project in this vast, complicated 
country, but it is a demonstration, to 
all who come into contact with it, of 
good living, made possible by a staff 
of five local “village” men and women, 
the ten men with vision and compas¬ 
sion on the Madras Committee, and 
thousands of Canadians and Americans, 
who annually make sacrifices to send 
their donations to the camp. 

Camp Tonakela has been a demon¬ 
stration of an overseas fellowship of 
campers and camping people since 
1937. This past year 3,150 different 
boys and girls camped on the 15 acre 
site. Practically every week-end there is 
a different group tenting and playing 
under the shade of the trees, planted 
there in the early days of the camp, 
and swimming in the pool, the only one 
in the countryside. Some groups bring 
their own leaders and are able to pay 
a nominal fee, but the majority are 
guests of the camp (“aided campers”) 
for whom the Madras Committee 
arranges transportation. All else—food, 
leadership and program is prov ided by 
the camp director and his assistants 
There arc five permanent staff mem¬ 
bers. Perumal Naidu, the Camp Direc¬ 
tor, lives in Reddypalayam Village, just 


down the road a quarter mile from the 
camp. His wife and four children, two 
teenagers and two younger ones, live in 
the best of the village houses. It has a 
beautifully kept pahnlcaf roof, thatched 
with lemon-grass. 

Two assistants, one male and the 
other female, help to care for the Con¬ 
valescent section of the camp. These 
children are in the camp up to two or 
three months, after being discharged 
from hospital in Madras. Here they 
regain strength before returning to 
comparatively inadequate home-care, if 
they have a home! This year 33 girls 
and 91 boys gained in weight from 5 
to 9 pounds, a result which indicates 
that good nourishing food and healthy 
habits have healing qualities. The new 
constructed Boys’ Convalescent Centre 
has accommodation for 50 beds which 
will make it possible to expand the 
service to more distant communities 
including the famous Vellore Hospital. 
It was explained to us that in all phases 
of camping there is more response from 
boys’ groups because parents are re¬ 
luctant to let girls leave home for any 
length of time. However, when we were 
there, there were 88 teenage girls from 
a well-known orphanage taking good 
advantage of all the facilities. 

One of the greatest thrills was to see 
the children from surrounding villages 
come into the camp “Indian file” to 
receive their complementary meal-a- 
day of porridge-like Kangec. The eager 
waving of hands for “seconds” proved 
that it was a popular dish. We liked it 
too. 

Gradually through the years improve¬ 
ments have been made and additional 


58 


Canadian Camping 


open buildings have been built through 
die generous contributions from abroad. 
The Old Treatment Centre Corner has 
been replaced by a building with sepa¬ 
rate cubicles providing sonic privacy 
and isolation to prevent cross-infection. 
With these new facilities more villagers, 
both adults and children, can be treated 
each day (about 10,000 annually). It 
is a great boon to the community to 
have this centre available for,, first-aid 
and chronic skin infections, so that the 
long trek into town is not necessary and. 
in cases of real emergency, there can be 
immediate attention. While we were 
there a young man from a small factory 
nearby was bathing a wound which had 
become badly infected. Daily treatment 
was saving him time and money, and 
assuring good results. 

It is not only the bare necessities of 
life which are provided at Camp Tona- 
kela, although goodness knows these are 
gratelully received, but also the philoso¬ 
phy which has grown from the ideals 
originally expressed by Mr. Wallace 
Forgie. the Canadian founder. Pemmal 
Naidu. the Camp Director, toured 
many camps in Canada and the U.S.A. 
in 1956. and his visit has been a con¬ 
tinual inspiration to him. Sri. N. A. 
Parankusum. one of the Madras Com¬ 
mittee, who attended the Y.M.C.A. 
World Gathering of Older Boys in 
1931, has been working with youth 
groups ever since and is a devoted sup¬ 
porter of Camp Tonakela. The Secre¬ 
tary of the Committee, Sri. T. P. San- 
lanakrishna Naidu, a former officer in 
the Ministry of Education, has also 
visited our part of the world. A quote 
from his report in the Newsletter of 
“The Indian Council of Child Welfare” 
(Madras State Branch) clearly exem¬ 
plifies the similarity of the aims and 
objectives of Camp Tonakela and her 
brother and sister camps abroad. 

“Within a mile of Camp Tonakela 
are varied types of villages which give 
page 61 please 


HOBART 
Food Machines 

Meat Choppers 
Vertical/Cutter Mixers 
Mixers 

Potato Peelers 
Food SIicers 
Power Meat Saws 
Steakmasters 
Portion Scales 
Dish and Glass Washers 
Food Cutters 
Food Waste Disposers 
Power Dicers 
Patty Machines 
• 

Hobart Manufacturing 
Company Limited 
Don Mills, Ontario 

Branches Across Canada 


SPORTS EOOIPMHT 

We specialize in Crests, Crested Shirts, 
Jackets etc., specially designed for 
your camp requirements. 

We carry complete inventory 

On: Trampolines, Volleyball, Softball, 
Basketball, Indoor and Outdoor 
Games, Life Saving Equipment, 
Shuffleboard, Tetherball, 
Archery, Flag Football, First Aid 
Kits at wholesale prices. 


JACK WATSON 

k SPORTING GOODS LTD. 

201 Church St., Toronto 

Phone 363-7277 free Catalogue 


59 


Toronto , Canada , February 1966 



from page 55 

between the peaceful environment in 
which I lived and the problem-filled 
world described on the printed page. 
I read about the workmen on strike 
employing the lawless techniques of 
intimidation, arson and violence. A rock 
had been hurled through the plate glass 
window of a shop on Bayvicw Avenue, 
a gang of teen-age hoodlums had terror¬ 
ized a Toronto suburban community. 
And, in Viet Nam, a horrible war had 
reached new levels of ferocity and 
slaughter. But on the shores of lovely 
Lake Kushog, the sun rose and set each 
day with ordered regularity, the Mother 
Oriole fed her nestlings with solicitous 
fidelity, the tall trees cast their pleasant 
shade over the shy woodland creatures, 
the flowers gave their nectar to the bees 


Ruttan’s . . . 

OFFER YOU 

REGULAR WEEKLY SERVICE ON 

• "TOPPIT"—Dessert Topping & Filling 

• "JELLO”—Bulk Jelly, Pic & Pudding Powders 

• "SUN-UP" Drink Powders (Bulk) 

• Jams, Jellies & Marmalades 

• Frozen Fish, Meats & Vegetables 

• Frozen Fruit & Juices & French Fries 

• "TOPPINGS" Bran Muffin Mix 

• "TOPPINGS" Bavarian Cream 

• "TOPPINGS" Fruit Pic Fillings 

• "TOPPINGS" Fruit Juice Pulpies 

• "TOPPINGS" Sundae Sauces & Syrups 

• "TOPPINGS" Hot & Cold Chocolate Powders 

• "QUAKER" Cake, Cookie & Pancake Mix 

• "TOPPINGS" Pancake Syrups 

• "TOPPINGS" Solad Dressings & Mustard 

• "MAXWELL HOUSE" Coffees 

• "DEVON" Relishes & Pickles 

• "WYANDOTTE" Detergents & Cleaners 

• Miscellaneous Baking Supplies 

Discount on Orders 
placed at Camp Show 

RUTTAN FOODS LTD. 

3 Overend Street, Toronto 2 
Write or 

Telephone 366-4668 Collect 


and the bees returned the favour by 
pollinating the flowers. 

It struck me that this antithesis 
between the harmony and serenity of 
Nature and the discord of man is 
entirely due to the fact that Nature 
obeys the laws of God whereas man 
does not. In Nature, the sun warms the 
earth and sustains life, the rains fall 
to bring refreshment and beauty, all in 
complete accordance with the Creator’s 
designs. But man goes his own stubborn, 
wilful way and, at any given time, a 
large part of mankind is in active revolt 
against the Creator’s purposes. 

In the life and teachings of Jesus we 
have been given a blueprint which 
clearly outlines the Heavenly Father’s 
plan for His human children and if we 
followed it we would be as happy as 
any bird pouring forth his ecstatic song 
on a summer morning. But because we 
deliberately flout God’s wise and loving 
purposes, we bring untold misery both 
on ourselves and others. 

This is why churches are so impor¬ 
tant. In a world full of strife and 
wrongdoing, they stand for good-will 
and moral integrity. And, week by- 
week, they hold up a vision of what 
life may become whenever men and 
women make a sincere effort to do the 
will of God. As we begin another season 
of church activity, let us remember how 
privileged we are to play a part in this 
creative enterprise and let us all work 
shoulder to shoulder towards our com¬ 
mon objective that, beginning with us, 
God’s kingdom may come and His will 
be done on earth as it is in Heaven. 


60 


Canadian Camping 




from page 59 

campers opportunities to learn .some¬ 
thing of village life and to contribute to 
it by putting on games for village chil¬ 
dren and inviting them for a tea party 
at camp or as guests at their camp fires. 
Camp life offers vast scope for the study 
of nature lore first-hand and invests 
with life the lessons studied at school in 
books and pictures. Clear night skies 
give to campers wonderful opportuni¬ 
ties of getting acquainted, with star-lore. 
Camp activities and camp fires reveal 
talents among the campers, which, in 
the inhibitions of town life had no 
chance to come into play. Camp organi¬ 
zation brings out among boys and girls 
qualities ol leadership, self-help and 
sense ol responsibility. Camp life pro¬ 
motes co-operation and fellowship. A 
well-ordered camp program can develop 
habits of observation and deduction, 
pioneering skills like building and 
making a fire, cooking, swimming and 
so on.” 

There is little in India that can be 
compared with Canada. Her cities are 
larger, the traffic is heavier, but the 
tempo is different. Her countryside 
varies, but the areas we saw were dry. 
dusty and infertile. The masses of hun¬ 
gry people will get little satisfaction 
from their daily ration of rice, but they 
have faced drought in other years, and 
many have lived through it. There was 
far less concern for human well-being 
in this country of ancient traditions 
until Ghandi and Nehru came and de¬ 
voted their lives to their people. Then- 
lives are being exemplified by their 
followers and they will have great faith 
in their new Prime Minister, Mrs. 
Indira Nehru Ghandi. 

And what of the future of Camp 
Tonakela? With our help it will con¬ 
tinue to be a demonstration of the best 
principles of western civilization. It 
proves that we do care for the rights 
of the individual and the sanctity of 
page 62 please 



Toronto , Canada, February 1966 


61 



OUR FRIENDS . . 
The Advertiser* 


American Camping Association . 36 

Burgess Publishing Co. 63 

Burrell Bedding Co. 48 & 4^ 

Continental Casualty Co.— 

Outside Back Cover 

T. Eaton Co. Ltd. 35 

Foodcraft Laboratories Ltd. 40 

Galloway Corporation . 36 

Gibbons Foods Ltd.Inside Front Cover 

S. Gumpcrt Co. of Canada Ltd. 61 

Hobart Mfg. Co. Ltd. 59 

K & N Travel Service . 61 

Lullaby Products Inc. 48 & 49 

McAinsh & Co. Ltd. 63 

Niewstadt Import . 48 & 49 

Parents’ Magazine . 40 

Oscar Pearson Enterprises . 61 

Rcdbook Magazine . 37 

Ruttan Foods Ltd. .. 60 

Stafford Foods Ltd. 38 

Starkman Chemists Ltd. 63 

Tandy Leather Co. 37 

Jack Watson Sporting Goods Ltd. 59 

Y.W.C.A. Toronto . 38 


POSITION WANTED 

Experienced, imaginative Camp- or 
Program Director. Wife: Crafts In¬ 
structor. BOX No. 220 CANADIAN 
CAMPING. 170 Bloor St. W.. Toronto 
5. Ontario. 


HELP WANTED 
Full-time Camp administrator and 
director to operate children’s summer 
camp. : 

BOX 730, Canadian Camping, 

170 Bloor St. W., Toronto 5, Ont. 


CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING RATES: 
Twenty cent* a word, minimum five dollars. 
All classified payable in advance. Address all 
cort espondeocc to “Canadian Camming”, 170 
Bloor Street West, Toronto, Ontario. 


from page 6 1 

human well-being. Regardless of race 
or creed, Hindus and Moslems share 
the opportunities offered them by 
people from the other side of the world 
who are motivated by the one desire— 
to share their ideals of Camping. The 
value of this sharing is almost as great 
for those who give as for those who 
receive. Planning ways to help support 
Camp Tonakcla directs our campers' 
thoughts toward the needs of other 
people. This is truly an overseas fellow¬ 
ship of world-minded campers. 


NOTICE OF MEETING 
C.C.A. BOARD OF DIRECTORS 

9:00 a.m. 

February 9, 1966 

Education Building 
University of British Columbia 

* * * 

C.C.A. Annual Meeting 

7:30 p.m., February 10, 1966 

Stanley Park Pavilion 
Vancouver, B.C. 


6 2 


Canadian Camping 

























from page 45 

Camp Conference and Counsellor 
Training Courses. Because the quality 
of camp leadership is of paramount 
importance, we recommend that— 

a. The Ontario Camp Leadership 
Centre (Bark Lake) be dupli¬ 
cated in other areas of Ontario. 

1). The Bark Lake campsite, the On¬ 
tario Athletic Training Centre, 
and other facilities be utilized 
during June of each year for ad¬ 
vanced training of camp coun¬ 
sellors in the eighteen to twenty- 
five year age group. 

c. Training Courses during the win¬ 
ter months be organized and 
staffed by the Ontario Camping 
Association and be subsidized by 
the Province. 

d. Travelling lectureships be estab¬ 
lished to visit camps during the 
summer. 

e. Specific Training Grants be given 
to the Ontario Camping Associa¬ 
tion in order to secure optstand- 
ing speakers and resource people 
for the Annual Provincial Train¬ 
ing Conference. 

4. Camp-Sites. 

a. Establishment of permanent 
camps and sites by the Province 
in suitable regions for use by 
children’s camping groups which 
operate for short periods. 

1). Acquisition of camp-sites for 
canoe tripping throughout the 
Province, with particular empha¬ 
sis on Southern Ontario when' 
sites are scarce now. 

c. Preservation of existing portages, 
public camp-sites, parks and wild 
life areas to ensure their avail¬ 
ability in the future. 

5. The Future — Should there be 

an outgrowth of the Select Committee 
on Youth in the form of a continuing 
body, we recommend that Children’s 
Camps be represented by an official 
representative from the Ontario Camp¬ 
ing Association. _ # 


Wholesale 
Medical 
Supplies . •. 

Medical Equipment 
First Aid Requirements 
Drugs and Medicines 

o 

Low Prices Fast Service 

• 

STARKMAN CHEMISTS 

459 Bioor St. W. - Toronto 
WA. 2 - Twenty-One - Twenty-One 


A Burgess Publishing Co. 
Camping Book 

LIGHT FROM A THOUSAND 
CAMPFIRES 

edited by Kenneth B. Webb 

More than 200 leaders of 
private, school and church camps 
have assisted the editor in screen¬ 
ing this enduring literature of 
camping. The wealth of exper¬ 
ience and philosophy contained 
in these 95 entertaining articles 
reflects the panorama of camping 
- - - its mental, physical, emo¬ 
tional, psychological, social and 
spiritual growth goals. 

5'/j x 8'/?’', 364 pages, paper cover 

Order this and other 
Burgess Camping books from 

McAINSH AND CO., LTD. 

1835 Yonga St. 730 W. Broadway 

Toronto 7, Ont. Vancouver 9, B.C. 


Toronto, Canada, February 1966 


63 




Since 1954 campers have been paid over one quarter 
of a million dollars from this plan. Benefits paid are 
increasing each year — proof of the need for your 
CAMP-GUARD plan. 

*A choice of plans for all organizational, church and private camps 
providing broad medical expense protection for each accident and each 
sickness at low cost group rates for both campers and staff members. 

Put camp-guard on your programme. 

Display this symbol and let parents know 
your camp is covered. This symbol of 
outstanding coverage assures them you 
take added interest in your camper's wel¬ 
fare, by providing a camp-guard accident 
and sickness plan. 

Your local insurance agent will help you 
choose the right plan for your camp; or 
write our nearest office for full particulars. 



ACCIDENT ond SICKNESS 

INSURANCE 


DISPLAY THIS SYMBOL 

STICK IRS AVAILABLE FOR YOUR STATIONERY 




CONTINENTAL CASUALTY COMPANY 


Suite 401, 1281 Georgia St. West 160 Bloor St. East 2100 Drummond Street 

VANCOUVER 5. ~ TORONTO MONTREAL 

MUtual 4-6381 924-4692 Victor 9-5303 


Suite 660, 1 Thornton Court, EDMONTON, GA. 4-7322 

202-209 Notre Dame, WINNIPEG 2, WH. 3-8723 Suite 403. 600 6th Avenue S.W., CALGARY, AM. 3-1937 












