
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 



DECEMBER, 1969 






























In the Meantime 
The Best of All Qood Wishes 

GIBBONS FOODS LIMITED 


49 ADVANCE ROAD 


TORONTO 18, CANADA 


TELEPHONE 239-1421 


LOOKING FORWARD 

to 

A Successful Camping Season 

in 

1970 







































Vol. 22 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 

December, 1969 


No. 1 


Editorial . Don Groff 

News from the Provinces 

The Society of Camp Directors . 

The House that Jack Built . 

In The Cause of Good Leadership . 

Rocketry at Camp Tawingo 

They Camp in Greece Too . 

Woodfire and Candlelight. 

Royal Life Saving Society of Canada . 


. 4 

. 4 

. 5 

. 8 

Laurence J. Taylor . 11 

Harry Brown . 15 

Ann Russe Prewitt 17 

Mary S. Edgar . 20 

. Joselyn Palm 21 


My Relationship With God . Margaret Govan . 22 

Point of View on Life Jackets . Kirk A. W. Wipper . 24 

C.l.T. Speaking Carolyn Ann Bennett . 25 

Cover Photograph Courtesy Camp Ponacka 
CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 
Box 2773, Station "D", Ottawa 4, Ont. 


Honorary President— Miss Mary S. Edgar 
President— The Rev. David Hartry, Box 1622, Halifax, N.S. 

Executive Secretary— Barry Bryant, Box 2773, Station "D", Ottawa 4, Ont. 

1st. Vice-President— Mrs. Betty Campbell, 50 Dutch Village Rd., Halifax, N.S. 

2nd Vice-President— Tom Creighton, c/o Box 1165, Halifax, N.S. 

Treasurer— Robert Gregory, c/o Bank of Montreal, Fairview, Halifax, N.S. 

Secretary— Mrs. Gregory Robert, c/o 5770 Tower Terrace, Halifax, N.S. 

Publisher— Broydon Printers Ltd., 164 Sherbrooke St., Peterborough, Ont. 

Editorial Committee: Don Groff, Chairman, Joyce Bertram, Eanswythe Flynn, Margaret 
Govan, Jean Darrach, Jocelyn Palm, John Latimer, Ann Prewitt, Bruno Morawetz, 
Jack Pearse, Kirk Wipper, Mary L. Northway. 


PAST PRESIDENTS 

*Taylor Statten, Toronto; *Dais L. Gass, Montreal; Anne I. Vail, Montreal; W. E. (Ted) Yard, 
Toronto; Irwin Haladner, Toronto; F. M. VanWagner, Montreal; Kenneth H. Murray, Mon- 
eal; Don Smith, Edmonton; Mrs. May Brown, Vancouver; Douglas McEwen, Winnipeg. 


PROVINCIAL OFFICES 

B.C. Camping Association— 616 E. Cordova St., Vancouver 4, B.C. 

Alberta Camping Association— 2402 27th St. S.W., Calgary 4, Alberta. 

Northern Alberta Branch— 10032 - 103rd St., Edmonton 15, Alberta. 

Saskatchewan Camping Association— 87 Caldwell Rd., Regina, Sask. 

Manitoba Camping Association— 444 River Avenue, Winnipeg 13, Manitoba. 

Eastern Ontario Camping Conference— 2131 Neepawa Avenue, Ottawa 13, Ontario. 
Ontario Camping Association— 501 Yonge Street, Suite 13, Toronto 200, Ontario. 
Quebec Camping Association— 2233 Belgrave Ave., Montreal 261, Quebec. 

Nova Scotia Camping Association— P.O. Box 1622, Halifax, N.S. 

Newfoundland & Labrador Camping Association— P.O. Box 4188, St. John's, Newfoundland 







































EDITORIALS 


With this issue of the Canadian Camping 
Magazine we are introducing its "new look". Re¬ 
commendations from the CCA Board and our own 
review as Publications Committee have led to the 
change in format and process now evident before 
you. 

From mimeograph to letterpress to offset; 
from stationery size to fold-over booklet, to display 
size; so has the history of our magazine developed 
alongside the growth of our camping movement. 
In its present form, the magazine offers the oppor¬ 
tunity for rapid communication, visual presenta¬ 
tion and flexibility, in order to reflect the dynamic 
and fluid society in which we live. 

Format and process will not accomplish these 
objectives alone, however. The content, both writ¬ 
ten and pictoral, must also be in keeping with "the 
scene". 


In this regard our movement and our maga¬ 
zine have not changed. We still depend upon the 
members of the camping association to contribute 
their opinions, news and experience through the 
medium of our magazine. With the new format 
this broadens to include photo material as well as 
the written word. Our strength as a voluntary 
organization is still embodied in the vitality of the 
membership — and that vitality will be evidenced 
only in the active and conscientious efforts such 
as those represented in submissions for the maga¬ 
zine. 

The new format and process offer the oppor¬ 
tunity. The vitality of our camping community will 
be measured by the way in which we utilize that 
opportunity. 

Don Groff, 

Chairman, Publications Comm. 


NEWS FROM THE PROVINCES 


From the Manitoba Camping Association 
comes news that Mrs. Nancy McGregor will take 
over the position of Executive Secretary formerly 
held by Mrs. Helene deWit who recently adopted 
a new daughter. Nancy has advised that the new 
address for the Association is 444 River Avenue, 
Winnipeg 13, Manitoba. Our good wishes go out 
to Helene and to Nancy in their respective new 
"careers". 


Keep These Dates 
Feb. 19/20 & 21. 

Quebec Camping Association Convention. 
Queen Elizabeth Hotel, Montreal. 


A news release from Miss Elizabeth Mouland, 
Secretary of the Newfoundland and Labrador 
Camping Association lists the 1969-70 Executive 


as: 


Major A. Browning 
Eric Russell 
Terry Healey 
Elizabeth Mouland 
Bob LeMessurier 
Levi Mehaney 
P.O. Box 418ff, St. John' 
new address. 


Past President 
President 
Vice President 
Secretary Treasurer 
Member at Large 
Member at Large 
s, Newfoundland, is the 


Feb. 25 - 28 

American Camping Association Convention, 
St. Louis, Mo. 


Mar. 5/6 & 7 

Ontario Camping Association Conference. 
Skyline Hotel, Toronto. 


4 



THE SOCIETY OF PROFESSIONAL CAMP DIRECTORS 



Dr. J. Harry Ebbs 


For a number of years, camp directors have felt 
the need of a professional group to promote higher 
standards amongst directors, a camping body out¬ 
side the Ontario Camping Association. In 1968, at 
a special session during the annual O.C.A. Confer¬ 
ence, a packed audience heard and discussed with 
Dr. Harry Ebbs, the results of a survey concerning 
the experience and qualifications of those pre¬ 
sently engaged in directing children's camps. 

From then on planning meetings have taken 
place, at which the foundations were laid for such 
a Society, and in the Spring of this year, the follow¬ 
ing five members were elected as Directors: Dr. 
Harry Ebbs, Mrs. Elsie Palter, Messrs. Ron John¬ 
stone, Clifford Labbett, and Bruno Morawetz, of 
which Dr. Ebbs is the Founding President. 

We cannot do better than re-print the full 
address presented by Dr. Ebbs at the Founding 
Banquet held at the Rosedale Golf Club, Toronto 
on May 21st, 1969. 

Mr. Chairman and Ladies and Gentlemen: 

It is a great honor for me to be asked to address 
you on this occasion when we gather to celebrate 
the founding of a new society. Some of you know 
that there have been abortive attempts to start 
such a movement in the past. Several years ago, 
after consulting members of the Ontario Camping 
Ascociation and the Canadian Camping Associa¬ 
tion I was encouraged to explore the possibility 
of a Society of Camp Directors, which might be¬ 
come a professional organization similar to the 
societies of other professions. Unfortunately it was 
somewhat premature, since the Camping Associa¬ 
tions were involved in organizational problems 
at that time and feared that a special group might 
cause a divison within the ranks of their own asso¬ 
ciation. This was also the case in the American 
Camping Association. 


Many people have asked, and I know you have, 
why there should be a Society of Professional 
Camp Directors. It is my opinion that camping has 
similar interests to many of the professions, and 
that properly qualified and experienced camp 
directors can be classed with teachers, zoologists, 
foresters, minerologists, geologists, engineers, 
psychologists, sociologists, physicians, etc., whose 
professions bring them into contact with many of 
the areas of camping. 

It is difficult for some people to understand that 
a person who is highly qualified and working in 
camp directing, is following a pursuit which can 
be called professional. Naturally, the occupation 
is somewhat different to that of other professional 
people because camping is different—it is a "way 
of life", which in many respects is different to 
everyday living. It is usually associated with the 
out-of-doors, involving a degree of adventure. It 
is associated with a return to nature, a healty form 
of living, a different form of physical activity, and 
in our case, group living for youth. There are many 
different disciplines or professions that are inter¬ 
ested in this camping movement which has been 
going on for more than 70 years and which, from 
the beginning, has been largely associated with 
youth. 

How did it all start? I am not going to try to 
trace its history, but I am sure that everyone here 
is aware that in this part of the world, Cochrane, 
Statten, Chapman, Plewman, Danson, and others 
in boys' camping and Mary Edgar, Mary Hamilton, 
Fanny Case, and Ferna Halliday and Ethel Statten 
among others, started girls' camping. They all 
began in a modest way and through sheer work, 
drive, dedication, inspiration, and a lot of luck, 
advanced children's camping to the level that it 
enjoys in Canada today. They developed what I 
like to call the "art" of camping. They practiced 
this art, it is true, partially by trial and error, but 
gradually they demonstrated a way of life which 
proved increasingly popular and was accepted 
generally as something good and beneficial. So 
the art of camp directing developed through sk'lls 
in organization, inspired leadership, and a vision. 
They did not have much background knowledge 
to turn to. They created knowledge by trying out 
programmes applicable to the needs of vouth and 
upon this foundation gradually drew from other 
disciplines as well as from their own skills and 
knowledge which enriched their own experience. 

At the beginning of this century, we began the 
period of so-called modern science which started 
with the discovery of x-ray, electrons, radio-activ¬ 
ity, etc. This created a new world characterized by 
speed, atomic energy, shrinking distances, and 
many other things which we are now beginning to 
accept as commonplace. Our world has changed 


5 



and we are in the struggle to try to keep up with 
all the new knowledge, something at which even 
the computers are not yet completely successful. 

What about the other side of living? What about 
the human being who has to adjust to a changing 
physical world? This is where, I think, camping 
can still play a big part; that is, in the area of the 
social sciences and their application to camping, 
and along with their importance in living in this 
new world. Knowledge in this field is hard to 
come by. It is slow. It deals with people not ani¬ 
mals or material in a test tube, such as one finds 
in basic science. How much of the science of living 
is part of camping? I think that it is a large part, 
and that it is here that camping can emerge as a 
force by producing new knowledge, by making 
a professional approach to the practice of camping 
through the social sciences as well as through the 
physical sciences. 

There are two types of research: theoretical or 
basic research and applied research. A profession 
is professing to know significant subject matter 
backed up by scientific facts. To begin with, you 
have an hypothesis with possible true facts which 
have to be tested before being accepted. You can 
have a theory about something in camping, which 
is more definite, but it also must be tested. If 
enough theories about camping are found to be 
true, then you have a body of knowledge. In a 
paper by Mendryk of the University of Alberta, 
he pointed out that if you do research and prove 
beyond reasonable doubt that a theory is true and 
if this is generally accepted, then you can call it 
a law. And so as a field of knowledge becomes 
enlarged, it becomes known and accepted and it 
guides its practitioners. As a result, we have the 
foundations for a profession. Many other profes¬ 
sions and disciplines share some of the body of 
knowledge about camping. They have put it 
together with other related knowledge as the back¬ 
ground for their own profession. 

The camper belongs to many people and to a 
variety of disciplines. This makes it important that 
camp directors become inter-disciplinary in their 
approach in order that they can understand and 
exchange information with other professions who 
have knowledge, interest and involvement in 
camping.- In this way, we can develop mutual 
respect' but even more important is the feeling 
of freedom to mix, to associate, and to share in 
the development of one's profession. 

A good example of this is in the sociology of 
leisure and recreation which encompasses outdoor 
education; something with which camping would 
be very much concerned. After all, school camping 
is an off-shoot of outdoor education which has 
always been practised in summer camps. I think, 
that camping is still the backbone of outdoor edu¬ 
cation. We should continue to study our contribu¬ 
tion and approach to this important growing field. 
There is no reason why professional camp directors 
cannot give direction and leadership to the outdoor 
education movement. 


In the early organization of a professional 
society it is necessary to motivate its members to 
continue to learn through research, through the 
interpretation and application of the research of 
others. Keeping up to date can be accomplished 
in advanced courses or special sessions within the 
Society itself. Most important of all is the stimula¬ 
tion of each other to bring forward problems, to 
look for unsolved questions and wherever pos¬ 
sible, to initiate research. 

Every profession has a form of discipline which 
is sometimes spelled out in a statement of ethics, 
but which usually need not be written, since it 
becomes an inner force within the total and the 
individual membership. It probably stems from a 
feeling of pride on the part of the individual as a 
member of a professional society, which guards 
jealously its reputation in the eyes of the outside 
world and strives constantly to keep the profession 
reaching for higher levels of excellence. 

This new society of Professional Camp Directors 
is, I believe, the first in North America. I am sure 
that it will be watched with great interest by many 
persons. Some will be eager to join, because it 
should raise camping to a new level of profes¬ 
sional development. It will be necessary to estab¬ 
lish, review and up-grade standards quite fre¬ 
quently. The founding members will be charged 
with the responsibility of guarding its membership 
to ensure that it will continue to command respect. 
Its continued success will depend upon our ability 
to encourage young people to become qualified 
for admission. This can only come about through 
inspiring potentially good camp directors to en¬ 
gage in pursuits which will qualify them for admis¬ 
sion. We must develop such persons, acting as 
their sponsors and introducing them to our meet¬ 
ings in order to give papers or take part in our 
discussions. Only in this way can the total member¬ 
ship assess them and decide whether they meet 
the qualifications and standards which are expected 
in our Society. 

Finally, we have a great opportunity to do some¬ 
thing which others have not dared to do. The next 
few years will determine whether or not we are 
ready to become a profession, to think and act as 
professional people, and to make a significant 
contribution to one of the most important forces 
in our present society, namely, the development 
of youth through camping education. As I look 
at the membership in attendance tonight, I am 
conscious of the tremendous experience in camD 
directing which it represents. It has a solid 
foundation. 

While many members are directors 
of camps in the central part of 
Canada, some are from other prov¬ 
inces and from the United States. 
Directors who would like further 
membership information may write 
to the Society of Camp Directors, 

P.O. Box 173, Station "S", Toronto 

20 . 


6 


NEW INFORMATION, SERVICES, PRODUCTS 


FOR 

CAMP OPERATORS 


INFORMATION 

SERVICES 


—Information Releases — New Product Knowledge 
—Service Releases — Production Guidelines 
—New Menu Suggestions 
—New Quantity Recipes 
—Series of Staff Training Helps 

“Fundamentals of Good Food Service” 


FOOD SERVICE 
PRODUCTS 


—Bulk Baking Mixes 

(Cakes, Cookies, Muffins, Donuts, Sweet Goods) 

—Pancake Mixes 

(Regular, Just Add Water, Buttermilk, Buckwheat) 

—Deep Fry Batters 

(Fish, Chicken, Fritters, Chops) 

—Hot Cereals 

(Quick, Old Fashioned, Quick Wheatlets) 

—Cold Cereals 

(Cornflakes, Muffets, Puffed Wheat, Puffed Rice, Cap’n Crunch— 
Assorted Individuals) 

—Hard & Soft Wheat Flours 

(Quaker All Purpose Flour — Saxon Pastry Flour) 

—Burry Biscuits 

(Individually Wrapped — Bulk Packed) 


FURTHER 

DETAILS 


Just write or call the Toronto Office — Tel. 222-6568 

5385 Yonge St., 
Willowdale, Ont. 

We will be glad to supply any further Information desired on 
Service Helps, Product Knowledge and Delivery Services to your 
individual camp(s). 


Food Service Division 



Quaker Oats Company 
of Canada Limited 


Peterborough, Ontario 


The 



7 










A Classroom Projecf 


THE WASTE THAT JACK BUILT 

by R. York Edwards, sketches by J. E. Underhill 

This variation of “The House that Jack Built" is adapted from a 
display used in the Manning Park (British Columbia) Nature House 
to demonstrate what can happen when the land is improperly used. 
This could form the basis for a school project, changing the wording 
and sketches to suit conditions in your area. Perhaps photographs 
could be taken of rivers, dry riverbeds, lakeshores, air and water 
pollution, abandoned farms, eroded gulleys, junk piles and so on 
and used instead of, or along with, the sketches. The projects could 
be done in individual notebooks, or as a group project on a mural 
or a strip, and might be used as an exhibit during special school 
functions and as a permanent classroom display. Perhaps in your 
area a more positive approach can be taken — “This is the Waste 
that Jack Stopped" — by focussing on land-, stream- or shoreline- 
improvement schemes. 



This is the town 
That lay in the waste that 
Jack built. 



This is the stream 
That fed the well 
That watered the town 
That lay in the waste that 
Jack built. 



This is the well 
That watered the town 
That lay in the waste that 
Jack built. 



This is the soil eroded and worn 
That filled the stream 
That dried the well 
That killed the town 
That lay in the waste that 
Jack built. 


8 





This is the forest now tattered 
and tom 

That lost its soil as a desert 
was bom 

That filled the stream 
That dried the well 
That killed the town 
That lay in the waste that 
Jack built. 



These are the birds that sang 
in the mom 

That needed the grass now 
shaven and shorn 
That grew by the forest all 
tattered and tom 
That lost its soil as a desert 
was bom 

That filled the stream 
That dried the well 
That killed the town 
That lay in the waste that 
Jack built. 



and shorn 

That grew by the forest now 
tattered and tom 
That lost its soil as a desert 
was bom 

That filled the stream 
That dried the well 
That killed the town 
That lay in the waste that 
Jack built. 



These are the farms that stand 
forlorn 

That once had birds that sang 
in the mom 

That needed the grass now 
shaven and shorn 
That grew by the forest all 
tattered and tom 
That lost its soil as a desert 
was bom 

That filled the stream 
That dried the well 
That killed the town 
That lay in the waste that 
Jack built. 



This is Jack, a sower of com, 

That ruined the farms that stand forlorn 
That once had birds that sang in the mom 
That needed the grass now shaven and 
shorn 

That grew by the forest all tattered and 
tom 

That lost its soil as a desert was bom 

That filled the stream 

That dried the well 

That killed the town 

That lay in the waste that Jack built. 


Reprinted by permission from Canadian Audubon, 
published by the Canadian Audubon Society. Toronto. 


9 





MM 


ki . a * v " s - 1 | j 

ilili 111 Is „.. • shH! 


CHESTNUT CANOE CO. LTD 


FREDERICTON, N.B. 


OVER 70 YEARS OF SERVICE TO 


CANADIAN CAMPERS 


Over 45 Models to choose from 


A Canoe for every purpose 


“Go With A Chestnut ” 


PAL MODEL 


KRUGER MODEL 


Write to the Chestnut Canoe Co. 
For Free Literature and Prices 




10 





IN THE CAUSE OF GOOD LEADERSHIP 


We in Ontario, have been fortunate in being 
able to share in leadership seminars, workshops 
and discussions with Laurence J. Taylor, Vice-Presi¬ 
dent for Leadership Development at Hillsdale Col¬ 
lege, Michigan. In an effort to share some of his 
thinking with camp directors across Canada, we 


have asked his permission to reprint one of his 
Hillsdale College Leadership Letters. A list of his 
many other letters is available at a small charge by 
writing to Hillsdale College Leadership Centre, 
Hillsdale, Michigan. Single copies may then be 
ordered, also in bulk, or by regular subscription. 


Hillsdale College 

Leadership Letter 

Vol. Ill, No. 7, December, 1964. 

17 WAYS TO BLOCK COMMUNICATION 


An executive in New Jersey asked the question: “What things might a fellow like me be doing in his 
ordinary rounds which block off communication from his people?” This bulletin begins a listing which space 
restricted to seventeen. They are addressed to any kind of management. As you read the material, the left 
column under each item lists the possible action or attitude of management and the right column shows a 
possible reaction on the part of those who are in the management group. Add a few items, if you like. 

Mr. Management: 

IF YOU DO THINGS LIKE THIS: THEN EXPECT REACTIONS LIKE THESE: 


1. You May Misunderstand or Misinterpret the Part Played By Your Own Authority, Position and Success. 


Just being the leader provides built-in barriers to 
communication which the leader finds it hard to un¬ 
derstand. Putting on a manager’s coat or moving to 
that chair in a private office does something to his 
situation. One man does become unduly impressed 
with his new spot and is different. Another remains 
the same but finds that others insulate and isolate 
him against the very people with whom he must 
communicate. When he places a premium on being 
liked and being “just one of the boys,” he fails to 
understand his own power as he directs and disci¬ 
plines, promotes and demotes. This attitude changes 
and tempers many factors in communication. 


Just as the child reads his parents and the pupil 
reads the teacher, so the work group try to read the 
leader and give him what he wants. If it is clear that 
he has more of a desire to be liked than he does to 
become the pivotal point for sound judgment and 
action, he will get what he deserves. His people will 
give him what he seems to want by screening their 
words and actions to match his expectations. Good 
news and happy thoughts will be given to him at 
once. Bad news and conflicts will be withheld. With¬ 
out knowing it, all enter into a scheme to deceive 
and communication is short-circuited to the disad¬ 
vantage of all. 


2. The Simple Failure To Keep People Informed Is 0 

It is so easy to assume that because you see, all 
have seen; because you know, all know. One of the 
most used sentences uttered by management, usually 
in surprise, is: “But I thought you knew that!” 

The failure to make clear the what and why is a 
natural weakness of those who oversee. Because 
they have the overview, it is easy to overlook the 
fact that such perspective must be shared with 
others, with the most careful reporting. 

3. A Negative Attitude Toward Things Which Are I 

How do you react when a change is required? On 
your answer hangs the initiative and creativity of the 
people whom you lead. If your record shows a super¬ 
concern for maintaining things as they are, you 
probably stand in the way of good communication 
with creative people around you. A service record 
tends to add to the caution which makes a man 
frown on changing. Risk-taking can never grow old. 


Of The Big Barriers To Communication. 

Few people will admit that they do not know that 
they have not been informed. Instead, we all tend to 
bluff, to blunder through, or to sulk, rebel or just 
sit back and wait. Some people are so far outside of 
the stadium that they don’t even question the game. 

But strip a man of information that he needs for 
successful operation and you have robbed him of his 
dignity. Without knowing why, he not only loses 
contact, but he also loses faith in you. 

v and Different Can Shut Off Communication. 

Men and women who have a real desire to express 
their ideas for change and improvement steer clear 
of a direct collision with your rigidity. They probably 
try to work out some bright idea for you and then 
sell you slyly on the notion that you thought of it in 
the first place. When they try that, they are giving a 
warning that it is time to check your ability to 
handle change, constructively. 


11 


IF YOU DO THINGS LIKE THIS: 


THEN EXPECT REACTIONS LIKE THESE: 


4. It May Appear That You Prefer Performance To People In Your Method Of Operation. 


Often a leader gives the impression that all that 
counts for him can be measured in terms of profit, 
production, action and results. The fact that people 
make all of this possible may never have much evi¬ 
dence from what he says. 

This may be a pattern that the leader learned. He 
assumes that everybody knows of his people con¬ 
cerns. On the other hand, he may not have a high 
value for people in his operation and this shows, no 
matter what he says to the contrary. 


Again people, trying to read the boss, will tend to 
shy away from those things which do not apply at 
once to profit, production, action and results. “Prove 
that it will show up in the profit column and you 
will get his ear” is the advice heard so often. This 
means that subordinates must scheme to find ways to 
get their superior to listen. This implies a barrier to 
communication which probably will result in the 
development of people who will speak the boss’s 
language and communicate as he does. 


5. If You Try To Block Off All Feeling, You Automatically Block Communication. 


In the interest of being factual, objective and cool 
in all situations, leaders sometimes announce that 
they do not want to handle anything that borders on 
the emotional. This is to deny the very nature of 
communication — for a person has not communi¬ 
cated unless he has stirred the emotions! 

This is not a suggestion that a good manager is one 
who blows up and off, but there is such a thing as 
a handicap in “never being out of poise.” For some 
of us, this is a defense against the tricky cross¬ 
currents that feeling can bring. 


Why show any feeling if the boss thinks that it is a 
weakness? Any smart subordinate will screen out 
the feeling which surrounds a problem and report 
only the facts which obtain. To do this is to allow 
the most incomplete communication and remove 
the basis for judgment and corrective action. 

Worse than this, he will fear the hidden feelings of 
his boss as he fears his own and be on guard. Emo¬ 
tions in the open can be handled. Those which are 
suppressed, by the leader or member, can cause 
real problems when they do become known. 


6. When Discipline Occurs Before Others, the Communication Lines Go Down. 


If orders are not followed, when needless mistakes 
are made, when the inexperienced cost the company 
money with their blunders, any normal manage¬ 
ment man must fight the temptation to give vent to 
his feelings with “on the spot discipline.” The best 
of us do this and are sorry for such indiscretions. 

Unfortunately, there are all too many examples of 
intelligent people who indulge in this luxury as a 
regular practice. These people seldom think of the 
damage done to communication in the process. 


Cause a man to lose face before others and you may 
lose him. As a young man said to this writer: “I de¬ 
served it, but why did you call me down in front of 
the secretary?” A man is much more concerned for 
the opinions and feelings of his peers than he is of 
his superiors. 

The resentment which results from such a loss of 
face spreads. If a superior will take such action 
against one; none are safe. The group begins to duck 
away from danger and communication suffers. 


7. Do You Allow Yourself To Become Hurried, Harried and Harrassed? 


Some executives seem to be in a kind of professional 
stew at all times. They give the impression of a swim¬ 
mer battling the current to move upstream, valiantly 
and perhaps vainly. 

This kind of tension shows in many ways. Sometimes 
the manager announces that he is pressed, pushes 
people roughly even as they try to express their 
ideas. Something about his manner says curtly: 
“Come to the point and be quick about it.” 


Pressure telegraphs its message to all who can see. A 
wise man will decide not to bring up anything of 
real importance when tension exists which may 
block a hearing. Why speak when the message won’t 
go through to those who should hear? 

Such pressures are contagious. Often one manager 
can color his total work force as they all press and 
push. Then the breakdown of communication extends 
to the entire group, and few know why it occurs. 


8. Communication Suffers When A Manager Cannot Admit A Mistake And Always Blames Others. 


Some managers, parents and teachers feel that it is 
wrong to admit a mistake. These people do not be¬ 
lieve that there is power in accepting blame for er¬ 
rors and great strength in offering apologies for 
wrongs which involve others. 

Coupled with this is the temptation to look for a 
scapegoat when things do go wrong. A manager can 
even persuade himself that he is infallible just from 
the habit of sidestepping his own mistakes. 


It is almost impossible to have any true communi¬ 
cation with a person who looks for mistakes in every¬ 
one but within himself. “How can you win?” say the 
men. “When things go well—he did it. When they 
go wrong, he says ‘who did that?’ ” 

Such tactics are divisive, for every man defends him¬ 
self against the possibility of blame for the errors of 
others. The pattern of never admitting an error 
spreads to the ranks and communication rings false. 


12 


IF YOU DO THINGS LIKE THIS: 


THEN EXPECT REACTIONS LIKE THESE: 


9. Your Reaction When Mistakes Occur May Close The Door On Communication. 


When people work together in pressure situations, 
handling many details, mistakes are sure to occur. 
Most of us can sit down—now—and tell another how 
to handle such occurrences. The tough job is to put 
our precepts into action on the spot. 

Dr. J. Clayton Lafferty asks managers three ques¬ 
tions: “What did you say when die mistake was 
made?” “How did you look?” “What did you do?” 
These action tests, when failed, tend to break com¬ 
munication with one who made the mistake. 


What you say, how you looked and what you did 
when a mistake is made tells the employee just how 
you value things—in action. People learn never to 
be found “near the scene of the accident” where a 
mistake is made lest they become involved and 
blamed, if their supervisor is vindictive. 

The leader who concentrates on “Who did this?” as 
against “What caused this and how do we avoid it?” 
will find a blank wall against him in communication. 
Employees stand together in a ring of silence. 


10. When You Fail To Have A Concern for Getting Attention, You Stifle Communication. 


Even in these days of transistors, we still have to 
tune in the radio to get the station we require. The 
leader who has little concern for this process in deal¬ 
ing with people cannot build the readiness for learn¬ 
ing, for education, for growth which proper com¬ 
munication requires. 

Every detail must be planned carefully if a speaker 
would polarize his audience to hear his message. The 
same care should mark the pre-planning of a mana¬ 
ger who would hold the attention of one man or 
many who must be informed, participate and act. 


“When I am called to the home office, I confess that 
I sit in the lobby and wonder if I will be up to 
handling the unknowns that the boss will fire at me,” 
said the high-priced manager. Somebody forgot die 
importance of putting another at ease before begin¬ 
ning the process of communication. 

“He paid more attention to his mail and the phone 
than he did to me. Result — I never said what I 
came to say.” The executive did not seem to know 
that attention is die first law of learning. Without it 
nothing happens of consequence. 


11. When You Allow Yourself Or Others To Be Unprepared, Communication Suffers. 


Strange as it sounds, many of us try to communicate 
with others in important situations armed with litde 
else than our wits and a pride in spontaneity. We call 
meetings that we say are important and then do 
litde to prepare ourselves or others to give the maxi¬ 
mum of our skills, training and background. 

Many a good executive has looked bad because he 
failed to have basic information. Often the same 
man helps others look bad by not making clear the 
structure of the meeting or interview, its goal and a 
careful notion of what was expected. 

12. Jump To Conclusions Without Evidence and Y 

Sometimes a man who shows genius in selecting the 
right market or the best program can be stupid in 
making judgments which are “people centered.” 

Because we see as we want to see, hear as we want 
to hear and make our judgments in terms of our¬ 
selves, we need to find ways to discover evidence as 
we make people decisions. The best parent has his 
subde favoritism and the best boss can be “snow 
jobbed” by a favorite who gets him on the blind 
side. Do this and communication suffers. 


“Well, what do you suppose this meeting is about?” 
asked one man in the conference room. “I wouldn’t 
know,” answered another, “And if the old man 
operates in usual style, he won’t be sure, either.” 

The frustration that is generated in the minds of men 
who have ideas and who want them to be used pur¬ 
posefully cannot be calculated. But communication 
suffers, not only from the lack of opportunity to 
focus the best of each individual’s skill, but also 
from a drop in respect for the manager who would 
misuse the group which he should lead. 

Will Place Communication Lines In Danger. 

A consistent record of gullibility on the part of a 
superior will break the “trust-line” of any man. The 
sense of fairness in his culture makes him rebel. 

“Why and how can you talk with a person who is 
unfair?” This question cuts off communication (tem¬ 
porarily or permanently) between husband and wife, 
parent and child, leader and led. A person’s record 
which is marked by injustice, blindness, favoritism 
and deft dishonesty looms up as a block to the most 
skilled practitioner of the communication arts. 


13. Some Of Us Block Off Communication By Deliberately Or Unconsciously Distorting Facts And Ideas. 


If you do this, the cause may be unknown to you. 
Your own tendency to worry, to magnify problems 
and to minimize possibilities may sneak into the 
things that you say—without your knowledge. 

Some of us are overly pessimistic or overly optimistic 
for the effect that we think it will have on our people. 
We must remember that reality is always a. matter 
for personal interpretation. What one gives the acr 
cent to by dotting the superlative may not have the 
same meaning for those who hear. 


“Well, we got the old poorhouse pitch in the meet¬ 
ing again today. This is the time of the year for old 
A.B. to frighten us a little for effect.” 

Communication like this scares some people and 
lulls others to sleep. Like the boy who called “Wolf,” 
the manager who distorts things in personal or group 
meetings will find that people tend to discount or 
magnify his ideas on their own. The result is such 
distortion and damage that the communication lines 
go down and the strategy backfires. 


13 


IF YOU DO THINGS LIKE THIS: 


THEN EXPECT REACTIONS LIKE THESE: 


14. We Often Forget That How We Say It May Be As 

The voice is an instrument of the human spirit as 
well as a medium for the expression of ideas. It re¬ 
flects the inner feelings of a man—often without his 
being aware of that reflection. 

Your tone of voice gives you away, no matter what 
you say. The words may be fine, but what of the 
music? This instrument can be within the control of 
its owner and should be taken into account and be 
in his charge. Otherwise, it can block the very com¬ 
munication that it is supposed to produce. 

15. Communication Suffers When The Experienced 

Few of us recognize the part which our own example 
plays in the development of people. If young men did 
express themselves in these terms as they look at the 
successful veteran, that veteran might be shocked 
and humbled to discover the hero role that he may 
be playing as he manages men. 

That role is endangered when the manager loses his 
empathy—his ability to feel into the other’s situa¬ 
tion. When he expects perfection, immediate results 
and no excuses, he is asking too much of anyone— 
and certainly of new people. 

16. Fail To Respect the Power Of Your People And 

When some managers complain about communica¬ 
tion problems, they mean that their people don’t 
hear, run and do—in that order. Granted that the 
giving of direct orders has its necessary place, the 
premium for today’s management should be placed 
on thought, interaction of ideas and reaction in such 
a way as to tap the full power of all those who are 
to work together. To do this, a manager must be¬ 
lieve in his people, seek feedback from them on in¬ 
formation that he gives and make full use of good 
questions to help continue the flow of ideas. 

17. We Tend To Forget That We Communicate 

The eyes of those who are led are so often focused 
on the leader. A child looks at his parents in terms 
of all that they mean to him—or should mean. Simi¬ 
larly, an employee or member puts together a mosaic 
of his superior’s record—his philosophy, his working 
principles, die methods that he uses, the attitudes 
which are his, the words that he says, even the way 
in which he says them. 

As a management man moves up the ladder in his 
organization, he moves away from the people with 
whom he once worked. That movement is both phy¬ 
sical in terms of distance and psychological in terms 
of the feelings of men. Whether or not he can still 
communicate with those people depends so much on 
what he is, how his people interpret and value what 
he is. Hence, he must initiate the bond of trust 
which underlies all communication. 


Important As What We Say. 

“I knew by the tone of his voice that this was not 
the time to give him any bad news,” said the assist¬ 
ant. He had learned to read his boss well, and used 
his judgment in deciding what to say. 

People judge others by voice more than they know. 
Voices can show irritation, smugness, hostility, de¬ 
preciation, self-pity, and insincerity. The manager 
comes in loud and clear to the ears of his men as 
well as to their eyes. Right or wrong, the manager’s 
voice may tell others that this is the day to be silent. 

Manager Forgets What It Is Like To Lack Experience. 

The manager who is unrealistic in his demands 
blocks off the inexperienced employee who needs 
help. Why tell this paragon of virtue, this super- 
successful man that you are in danger of failing? It 
may be better to bluff and hope for the best. 

The good father, teacher or manager keeps his mem¬ 
ory young as he grows old in experience. Failure to 
do this is to cut the lines of communication to the 
young. The wise leader must keep the lines open, 
find ways to help others improve and push for ex¬ 
cellence—all at die same time. 

You Block Communication. 

“Any meeting with him is a one-way conversation,” 
said the young employee. “When I do get a chance to 
offer an idea, I somehow get the notion that he al¬ 
ready has his mind made up and I keep my mouth 
shut. Funny, he told me that he prized ideas when I 
first came here.” 

The young fellow feels enslaved and frustrated with 
no chance to speak up with his best thinking. Plato 
said that “a slave is one who gets his purposes from 
someone else.” Nothing relates people to each other 
like a goal which they worked out and agreed on. 

What We Are. 

If you read back through these right hand columns, 
you will find a desire for leadership which is trust¬ 
worthy, judicious and exemplary. The management 
man must balance fact and feeling, keep the lines of 
communication open at all times, have the willing¬ 
ness to accept positive change, be poised under fire, 
ask for perfection yet have a willingness to look at 
even his own mistakes, work for profit but never 
lose sight of people, know his field and help others 
know theirs and be an example of all that he asks 
of others! 

Before you protest, remember that these expecta¬ 
tions are the source of power for management. Don 
Phillips likes to say that people want to trust their 
leader and that this is leadership’s great advantage. 
This feeling must become a fact for positive manage¬ 
ment and undergird all communication. 


Reprinted by permission, Hillsdale College Leadership Letter, 
Vol. Ill, No . 7, December, 196i. 


14 


ROCKETRY AT CAMP TAWINGO 

by Harry Brown 

Assistant Camp Director (Administration) Camp Tawingo 



"One minute to launch, and counting/' 

'Radio Control Officer, contact the Search and 
Recovery Team." 

"Recorder—name of the rocket." 

"Range Guard, hoist the warning flag." 

"Safety Officer, light the warning flare." 

"Ten seconds to lift off and counting." 

"Master Armourer, insert the key." 

"Fire the launch panel." 

"Fire Control Switch, on." 

"All systems are go,—5 seconds to launch." 

"4 seconds!" 

"3 seconds!" 

"2 seconds!" 

"1 second!" 

"FIRE!" 

"Remove the key—all switches off." 

Does this sound much like a camp program? It 
could be because this is the launch procedure we 
use at Camp Tawingo. 

Are you still interested? 

This year we wanted to introduce a program 
for senior boys which would be fun, hold their 
interest and at the same time give them some 
challenge. So far we have been successful on all 
three counts with many of our boys. 

Today most boys are as eager to launch rockets 
as we were to fly model aircraft and for the same 
reasons. However, many boys are frustrated be¬ 
cause they are not allowed to get into the field of 
model rocketry. Rocketry then becomes an excel¬ 
lent activity for camp because it is a program 
which cannot easily be duplicated in the city. 

Is it dangerous? No, not anymore than many 
of the other worthwhile programs which are 
carried on at camp. Like waterfront activities, 
rocketry has definite safety measures which must 
be taken in order to ensure the safety of the 
campers. 


We began our rocketry program before camp 
started by obtaining a licence from the Canadian 
Rocketry Society. This body in conjunction with 
the federal government controls the launching of 
model rockets. Some of these regulations include 
such things as the weight of the rocket, and fuel 
package. In addition, safety measures are taken. 
No persons may be closer than 25 feet to a rocket 
about to be launched. All rockets must be electric¬ 
ally ignited. A list of all the regulations and safety 
measures are included in the literature supplied 
by the Canadian Rocketry Society. 

Our next step was to purchase several rocket 
kits along with a good supply of appropriate 
engines. Once camp started groups of campers 
built the model rockets, constructed a wooden 
bunker, erected a flag pole and generally cleared 
a recovery area. Launch teams were then picked 
from the interested campers who had helped in 
the program. 

The final "countdown" was under way and 
other campers were invited as spectators to view 
the launching. Here too the senior boys were 
responsible for crowd control and hosting the 
official party as they entered the launch area. 

The rockets were then armed and placed on 
the gantry as the first launch team went into 
"alert". While the last seconds ticked off the whole 
area responded in anticipation of our first "blast 
off". The rocket ignited on command, followed a 
smooth flight pattern, and returned to the recovery 
area where alert members of the team located 
their find and returned it to the bunker. 

If you want to see an eager team of boys in 
action from "rocket builders" to launch officer 
watch a team such as this in the final ten seconds 
of their countdown which will climax a proqram 
which has taken nearly two weeks to complete. 

Many skills can be learned or revitalized in this 
kind of program and as the participants become 
more skilled, sophistication may be added. Boys 


'V./ > ✓ > V 






POOL MAN Limited 

Water Fun & Safety Items 
Playground Equipment 
Transhailers 

Water Pumps and Softeners 
Write for Catalogue 

11 Oakland Ave. 


Weston, Ont. 


244-5513 




15 


might do such additional activities as calculating 
the height of the apogee, graphing the trajectory 
of a rocket and then comparing it to the flight plan. 
If the boys become highly skilled they might even 
design and build a rocket of their own. 

How much equipment is required and how 
much will it cost are questions which are sure to 
be asked. The essential equipment which includes 
a launch panel with controlled ignition systems, a 
car battery, some rock kits and some suitable 
engines is very reasonable. We offered the pro¬ 
grams during four different periods of camp for 
a budget of less than one hundred dollars. 

Additional equipment such as hard hats, field 
glasses, walkie talkies, tape recorders and a loud 
hailer are of considerable benefit to the launch 
team but they are not essential. 

What do the boys themselves think of this kind 
of program? Let me list a few of the comments 
which boys made during one of our launches: 

"Man, look at her go." 

"Where did it go? I've lost it." 

"The wind has it—get that recovery team after 
it." 

"Man, this is great!" 

"Don't let it touch the ground." 

"We've got it and it seems to be in perfect con¬ 
dition, so we are returning it to the bunker, over." 

"Roger, good work, Recovery Team." 

"Boy, this was great—when can we do it again?" 

With this kind of enthusiasm, I am sure we will 
have no trouble holding the interest of our senior 
boys again next year. 


THE VERY BEST 
SOLID FOAM 
MATTRESSES 

for 


TRAILERS 

BOATS 


COTTAGES 

CAMPS 


at the lowest prices 


FOAM SALES REG'D 

47 CROCKFORD BLVD. 
SCARBOROUGH, ONT. 

751-0561 




SPORTS EQUIPMENT 

We specialize in Crests, Crested Shirts, 
Jackets etc., specially designed for your 
camp requirements. 


On: 


We carry complete inventory 

Trampolines, Volleyball, Softball, 
Basketball, Indoor and Outdoor 
Games, Life Saving Equipment, 
Shuffleboard, Tetherball, Archery, 
Flag Football, First Aid Kits at 
wholesale prices. 


JACK WATSON 

SPORTING GOODS LTD. 

30 Mobile Dr., Toronto 16 


Phone 757-2844 


free Catalogue 







16 


THEY CAMP IN GREECE TOO 

by Ann Prewitt , Director , Northway Lodge 


We paused for a stop as the car rounded a curve 
and the plains of Marathon stretched before us. 
Like the ancient Greek soldiers spying down upon 
the Persians 2,000 years ago, we scanned the level 
plain as it spread out into the glittering Aegean 
Sea. 

"Over on the far right is St. Andrew's Camp 
which we will visit next", said George Stathos. 
Mr. Stathos is Head of the Foreign Press Division 
of the Prime Minister's Office who was kind 
enough to provide a car and driver, as well as 
spend a whole day himself, showing me some of 
the many, many children's camps in Greece. This 
journey was typical of famed Greek hospitality. 

In the land where the Olympics started I 
shouldn't have been surprised to find that they 
believe so strongly in camps for children. Out of a 
population of 8 million they send approximately 
400,000 children to camp each summer for 3 
weeks or longer. This is probably the highest per¬ 
centage of any country. 

Greeks, especially, love their children. Because 
of the dowry that must be provided, they generally 
do not marry until they are in their thirties. The 
dowry may take almost any form, such as furniture 
for an apartment, but it is difficult to save when 
wages are so very low. Brothers are expected to 
help their fathers provide dowries for their sisters. 
So the couples strolling in Zappian Park on Sunday 
afternoons, with their long-awaited little children, 
are inclined to look more like very young grand¬ 
parents. 

There is widespread backing and acceptance of 
camps. For example, a bank, such as The National, 
with all its branches, has a camp for their employ¬ 
ees' children up in the mountains. The camp is 
free and each employee is automatically docked to 
supply a fund to run it. Banks, Lawyers, Account¬ 
ants, shop owners of Athens, as well as other 
trade or professional groups have camps for their 
children. 

In addition there are privately owned camps. 
Scout camps and YM and YWCA camps. 



Governmental groups, such as the Municipality 
of Athens, have camps for their children. By far 
the greatest percentage of children go to camps 
run by the Department of Education and the De¬ 
partment of Social Welfare of the Greek Govern¬ 
ment. The teachers in the classrooms select the 
campers, favoring those who particularly need 
camp from the health point of view. 

The Athens YMCA has a very modern camp on 
the island of Salamis with facilities for over 200 
boys per period. The YWCA has recently discon¬ 
tinued their camp but are building anew with a 
government loan at Rethymnon on the island of 
Crete. Although the plans are still indefinite, Ellie 
Popatheophilon, the Program Director, hopes to 
use this camp for older girls and, not only have 
regular camp activities, but also teach two sub¬ 
jects, such as English and mathematics, as well. 

Generally speaking, the activities are more 
limited than at camps as we know them in North 
America. The emphasis is on health. A private 
camp, Kinderland Hellas, Kakamos, Attilis, takes 
200 children from 5 to 12 during July and August. 
They sleep in 8-bed doubly insulated tents and 
their buildings are mainly a dining room, modern 
kitchen, and convalescent house. They have swings, 
a small swimming pool, and stage. The campers 
play games, enjoy dances, music, campfire, 
climbing and sea sports. Excursions are arranged 
by boat to nearby islands. The fee is 145 drachmas 

a day, which is about $4.35.an expensive 

camp. Foreign children are welcome for long or 
short periods. 

Like most Greek camps, Kinderland is com¬ 
pletely fenced with high cyclone wire fencing, 
topped with barbed wire. There are guards all 
night and all day. On the drive down to Sounion 
with Mr. Stathos we looked into camp after camp, 
all securely fenced. 

The government camps are all free while other 
camps run by the Y's, Banks, etc., may vary in 
fees from nothing to a small charge for laundry 
. . . on up. Some private schools have their own 
camps but none are very expensive by western 
standards. 

Our car wound down the hillside to the flat 
plain below. Mr. Stathos pointed out the strange 
vertical hill in the centre near the sea that is the 
common grave for the 192 Greek soldiers who 
were lost at the battle of Marathon in 490 B.C. 
(I don't know what became of the 6,400 Persians 
who were also killed.) 

Just south of this strange 'monument' to the 
victorious Greeks is St. Andrew's Camp by the 
seashore, the largest and finest camp run by the 
Departments of Education and Social Welfare. 

St. Andrew's can take 3,000 children at a time 
who are divided into two groups. Each group is 
further divided into sections of 40 children. For 


17 






each group of 40 there are one professional teacher 
and four High School age assistants. The teacher 
and High School counsellors are all unpaid volun¬ 
teers which makes for a very high quality of 
interested leadership. (Volunteers from Canada 
and the U.S. should write directly to the Head of 
the Department of Education, Athens.) The campers 
come for a period of three weeks. 



The small groups are flexible and highly inde¬ 
pendent of each other. There is much emphasis on 
crafts and especially plays. They carry on the long 
strong tradition of the Greek theatre. 

St. Andrew's is very much an open air camp 
because the weather is gorgeous. The kitchen and 
dining areas are open and unscreened. Kitchen 
equipment is very modern stainless steel and the 
children get 2,000 calories a day, with fish twice 
and meat four times a week. 

For sports they play soccer and volley-ball and 
swim in the sea. 

Perhaps camps actually began in 776 BC with 
the nine-day Olympic games and festivals. Of all 
the valuable gifts the Greeks have bestowed upon 
the world, the modern camp to-day is beholden 
to them for the Olympic spirit of fairness, good 
sportsmanship and a true enjoyment of life. 


r 


X 

JOHN LECKIE LIMITED 

Wall Tents, Scout Tents, Tarps, \ 

s 

Sleeping Bags, Etc. ^ 

also 

Snowmobile Suits and Gauntlets > 

30 UPJOHN ROAD, DON MILLS, ONT. 
445-3400 


1 













If you enjoy working with 
your hands (so many people 
do), then you will appreciate 
the contents of our new 1970 

CRAFT 

CATALOGUE 

and 

IDEA BOOK 


i 


Its 132 pages are full of Craft 
ideas, basic instructions and 
materials you can use during 
your creative leisure hours. 
Many craftworkers consider it 
a reference book on contempor¬ 
ary Arts 'n Crafts. So t if you 
enjoy working with your hands 
and would like a compliment¬ 
ary copy, simply send us your 
name and address. 


ii 


284-286 KING ST. WEST, 
TORONTO 2B, CANADA 


•VVW / >VVV>Vj 






18 






19 














from Woodfire and Candlelight 


by Mary S. Edgar 


Not many camp directors are fortunate enough 
to own a copy of Miss Edgar's first book, now out 
of print. However, Canadian Camping will print, 
from time to time, a collection which may be 
clipped to form a book of reference for Morning 
Watch, Sunday service or discussion group quota¬ 
tions. 


To An Old Camper 


A Camp Recipe 


You may think, my dear, when you grow quite old 
You have left camp days behind; 

But I know the scent of wood-smoke 
Will always call to mind 
Little fires at twilight 
And trails you used to find. 

You may think someday you have quite grown up 
And feel most worldy wise: 

But suddenly from out the past 
A vision will arise 

Of merry folk with bare brown knees 
And laughter in their eyes. 

You may live in a house built to your taste 
In the choicest part of town 
But some day for the old camp togs 
You'd change your latest gown, 

And trade it all for a balsam bed 
When the stars all night look down. 

You may find yourself grown wealthy 
With all that gold can buy 
But you'll know wealth ne'er can purchase 
Those days 'neath an open sky. 

With fun, a sense of freedom 
And camp friends standing by. 

For once you have been a camper. 

Something has come to stay 
Deep in your heart forever. 

Which nothing can take away; 

And Heaven can only be Heaven 
With a camp in which to play. 

I Have a Mountain 

I have a mountain in my soul 
For pilgrimage and far-off goal 
No landscape is completely fair 
Unless in dream's my mountain's there. 

I see it wrapped in mists of dawn 
Rose tinted, shy, a thing withdrawn, 

Shadow and sun it wears at noon. 

At dusk it clasps a crescent moon. 

Since first I loved a higlj blue hill 
Long, low horizons never fill 
The need I have for peaks that rise 
To catch the light of changing skies. 


A lake-bowl of water, hill-rimmed 
and blue 

Sprinkle with sunshine, diffused 
through and through 

Flavouring from miles of evergreen 
trees 

Stir altogether with clear northern 
breeze. 

Add a flash of white wings, the dash 
of a brook 

Or a slow-dropping stream from a 
fern-hidden nook. 

Allure all the children from all kith 
and kin. 

And after much sorting, and much 
merry din 

Place them in cabins where each has 
a friend. 

Provide them with fun and some 
leisure to spend. 

Season with crafts, with sailing and 
trips, 

With riding and tennis, canoeing and 
and dips. 

Toast by a fire, or bake in the sun 

Until every camper is perfectly done. 

Keep them in safety eight weeks, or 
till brown: 

Then they are ready to serve back 
in town. 

In Lighter Vein 

Once there was a Camper 
At Camp-Craft she excelled 

Kabobs and stews were specialties 
Her puddings always jelled. 

She learned the art of building fires. 
The kind of wood to choose, 

The surest way to pitch a tent 
The sort of axe to use. 

Back home in town, when camp was 
done 

Of all her skills she'd boast: 

Her family grew skeptical, 

For she burned the morning toast! 


20 


ROYAL LIFE SAVING SOCIETY OF CANADA 


by Jocelyn Palm 

Executive Secretary, Royal Life Saving Society (Canada) 


The Royal Life Saving Society Canada, re¬ 
cognizing the need to keep its program current 
by encouraging training in the best possible tech¬ 
niques, has made revisions to the program effec¬ 
tive January 1, 1970. The water rescue program 
consists of the Elementary Award, Intermediate 
Award, Bronze Medallion, Bronze Cross, Award 
of Merit, Distinction Award, and the Diploma. 
Training in resuscitation, for which no aquatic 
facilities are required, may be accomplished 
through the earning of the Junior and Senior 
Resuscitation Awards. 

The revisions to the program place an em¬ 
phasis on realism in the rescue items encouraging 
candidates to recognize the risks involved, and 
therefore exercise good judgment. Test items 
within each award have been analyzed and are 
consistent with the lifesaving principles presented 
in the Canadian Life Saving Manual of the Society. 
New and useful techniques have been included 
in the program which should be attractive to the 
growing number of persons concerned with equip¬ 
ping themselves for lifesaving emergencies. 

The revisions have been printed in booklet 
form for insertion into the current Manual. Copies 
of these booklets are now available from your 
Provincial Branch Office of the R.L.S.S. 


THE EXAMINATION FORMS HAVE BEEN 
CHANGED AND WILL BE AVAILABLE AFTER 
JANUARY 1, 1970. CAMP DIRECTORS AND THEIR 
WATERFRONT PERSONNEL SHOULD REQUEST 
THIS INFORMATION AND MATERIAL WELL IN 
ADVANCE OF NEXT SUMMER'S ACTIVITIES. 

It is to be hoped that through the revised 
program more of your campers will receive valu¬ 
able lifesaving training. 


NORTH WEST CANVAS LIMITED 

Manufacturers of 

Trip and Incamp Tents, Flys, Packsacks, 
Tarps, Sleeping Bags, Etc., Made of Nylon, 
Sail Silk, Fabrine, Cotton, etc. 
AlsoFoam Mattresses and General Repairs 

1356 Regina Street, North Bay, Ontario 
Telephone 474-2777 


NOW 

Pies FOR CAMPS 


Wise camps use Stafford’s pie filling and bake a pie in 
HALF THE TIME. Stafford’s pie filling is ready-to-use. Just pour 
it in the pie shell, and pop it in the oven. Out comes a tender, 
flaky pie no camper can resist, with his favorite filling — 
pineapple, mincemeat, raisin, raspberry, blueberry, cherry, 
apple, boysenberry, apricot, peach or strawberry and rhubarb. 

See your Stafford man for pickles, relish, mayonnaise, 
mustard, hot chocolate, canned fruits and vegetables, tea, jams 
and toppings ... all with that homemade flavour. 


Stafford 


Stafford 


APPLE PIE 


Wo 


Stafford 

UUEBERRY Fit 
Etfibna, 

idF* 


FOODS LIMITED 


37 Hanna Ave. 


Toronto 3 


366-8021 


BRANCHES: 

MONCTON, 


MONTREAL, WINNIPEG, 


CALGARY, EDMONTON, VANCOUVER 





MY RELATIONSHIP WITH GOD 


by Margaret Govan, Director, Camp Onawaw 


I cannot direct a camp where God is left out 

Since I am part of Him (infintesimal though 
it is) and He is part of me, I cannot be a whole 
person without Him. I cannot in all honesty, direct 
a camp with only part of myself. So the Supreme 
Being beyond and within the universe is present 
at camp. 

I do not expect to give any camper my re¬ 
ligion. Each camper is unique,- her religion, if she 
have one, is also unique. But I do plan to give 
her time, opportunity, and stimulation to find God 
and learn more about Him for herself. I will try, as 
far as I am able, to see that a positive atmosphere 
pervades camp, where the 'good things' of life 
are revered, accepted and lived. Sir Richard Living¬ 
stone, the great British educationalist, says that 
children must experience democracy by living in 
that atmosphere. For the duration of the camp 
period I crave that children live in what, for lack 
of a better term, I have to call a religious atmos¬ 
phere. 

This means that the tone of the camp . . . 
which ultimately depends on my relationships with 
staff and campers . . . must be one of tolerance, 
understanding, helpfulness, expecting the best and 
sharing the best. It must be honest and sincere, 
a place where people can be themselves without 
fear (I am afraid it sounds like hitching one's 
wagon to a star . . . but I believe we have im¬ 
measurable sources of help and strength.) 

This, of course, means that the staff must be 
the kind of people that are worthy of imitation 
by campers. They too must be tolerant, under¬ 
standing, concerned, appreciative, kind, consider¬ 
ate, able to put themselves across, aware of good' 
ness and beauty and the joy of living. They must 
come from varied backgrounds and experiences, 
so that horizons are broadened. Above all they 
must be real people. 

This means that there must be self-discipline 
in camp. Because a camp, if it is to be warm and 
friendly, if the campers are to respect the rights 
of other campers, must learn to restrain behaviour 
which prevents others from living fully. They must 
also realize that privileges go hand in hand with 
responsibilities. That honestly and integrity are 
not just a matter of words. 

Programme must be worth-while . . . honest 
teaching and concern for associate learnings such 
as courtesy, punctuality, courage; opportunity for 
creativity; games in which people count as well 
as the playing; songs and stories and plays worthy 
of being remembered; time for dreaming, talking, 
and living. Campers must be encouraged to make 
decisions within their scope, and be given time 
and opportunity to discuss the values which make 
for good citizenship within the camp community. 


(Again to quote Livingstone: democracy must be 
discussed as soon as a child is old enough to ap¬ 
preciate his place in society.) 

There must be chapel services, morning watch, 
or something similar, for there must be time to 
meet God. He can so easily be forgotten in our 
busy-ness. Not too much time: there is no room 
for boredom but time enough to gain perspective 
for the day. The topics must be relevent and per¬ 
tinent to the campers' lives and experiences, and 
the format varied from day to day. Such topics 
as: 

wonder, appreciation for the marvellous 'hap¬ 
penings' in the natural world as triggered off by 
a special sunset, a rainbow, northern lights, a 
starry night, reflections, colour, sound, etc. 

conservation with emphasis on preserving the 
beauty and natural surroundings for others to en¬ 
joy- 

respect and acceptance of one's self, purposes, 
standards and values. 

Cabin relationships emphasizing respect and 
appreciation for the unique and different in per¬ 
sons, giving and sharing, and accepting from 
others, being responsible, doing whatever has to 
be done to the best of one's ability. 

thankfulness. 

sympathy and understanding in times of diffi¬ 
culties and sorrow. 

courage. 

inner security based on a philosophy of life. 

and the cardinal sins of campers: selfishness, 
quarrelling, lying, stealing and borrowing without 
responsibility; lack of self-discipline, teasing to the 
point of hurting. 

as well as all the other matters which turn 
up in the camp community. 

Those leading in these services must have as 
much know-how and belief in what they are doing, 
as the staff appointed to teach swimming or riding 
or crafts! It is not something that you just pick 
out of the air. 

A cabin counsellor must make opportunity 
for the camper who wants to say personal prayers. 
It has to be done so that there is no embarrassment, 
fear of being different, or even a feeling of 
superiority. Also to listen and discuss, and listen 
again. None of this is easy and the counsellor, 
in most cases, will require help and direction. 

What of results? They are intangible for the 
most part. But you can see them in the campers' 
attitude towards the chapel, in a growing sense 
of values, in relationships. Most of all it comes out 
years afterwards in conversation with an old cam¬ 
per. 

IN THE KIND OF WORLD IN WHICH WE 
THE SPIRIT MUST NOT BE ALLOWED TO DIE OF 
STARVATION. 


22 





SYMBOL 

of 

CONVENIENCE 

in 

FOOD SERVICE 

You'll reduce labour cost where you want 
it most . . . right in your kitchen with Lily 
Disposable Cups, Plates and Dishes. And 
you'll get better^ faster and easier meal¬ 
time service (sanitary too). 

For complete information and samples 
write to: 

LILY CUPS LIMITED 

MERCHANDISING DEPT., 

P.O. BOX 4020, TERMINAL “A" 
TORONTO, ONTARIO 






MEDICAL 
SUPPLIES 
FOR CAMPS? 



Starkmans of course, because we have been supplying all the major 
camps for over 37 years. 

Starkmans wholesale division gives you one source of supply—fast 
service, and all orders are shipped the same day received. 

You are sure of the finest First Aid equipment, drugs and medicines, 
call or write, and remember low, low prices prevail at Starkmans. 

STARKMAN 

“Jn the Set vice o/ Medicine” CHEMISTS LIMITED 

1243 Bathurst St., Toronto 
535-3103 



cPoint 0/ view on J^i(e jackets 


The issues surrounding life jacket use, es¬ 
pecially for canoe trippers is one which continues 
to persist and is under review by a variety of 
committees and agencies in the aquatic field. 

Clearly, canoe tripping camps have a dual 
responsibility in insuring the safety of their own 
campers, and beyond that to provide an example 
to the many thousands who travel in the wilder¬ 
ness without the advantage of adequate educa¬ 
tional programs to prepare them for canoe or even 
kayak travel. 

This writer is aware that the life jacket issue 
has vascillated to and fro: from the use of life 
jackets on canoe trips to the stand that proper 
canoe education programs are available and there¬ 
fore that life jackets are unnecessary encum¬ 
brances The arguments supporting each of the two 
positions need not be reviewed here What is 
more significient it what may be regarded as a 
compromise that this writer wishes to put for¬ 
ward. Further, it is in essence a refinement of 
a previous article written on the subject. 

Life jackets should be carried on canoe trips; 
one for each paddler, and placed in a readily 
accessible place in the canoe. The conditions under 
which they must be worn are as follows: 

1. Fatique from extended effort, hot weather 
or other exhausting conditions. 

2. Illness 

3. Injury 

4. Unusually cool weather conditions 

5. Unknown River paddling or where water 
levels fluctuate from dam controls, etc. 

6. Dangerous but navigable fast waters with 
difficult landing points or obstructed por¬ 
tages etc. 

7. Impending sudden storms or impulsive 
changeable winds while en route to shore. 

The recommended jacket for canoe trippers 
is one which incorporates the small sealed air poc¬ 
ket principle and is currently manufactured in 
Canada. Lightness, durability, comfort, and a high 
flotation factor are all advantages of the new 
model. Another feature is the freedom of arm 
movement allowed by the new design. 

In putting forward the above point of view 
for life jackets, it is presumed that the leadership 
for canoe trips has specific qualification in rescue 
procedures. Each sternsman on a canoe journey 
should have "current" standards of life saving i.e. 
Bronze Medallion, R.L.S.S. or its full equivalent. 
Further a high level of physical and mental fit- 


by Kirk A . W. Wiyper 



ness should be maintained to cope with the un¬ 
usual demands inherent in canoe travel emergen¬ 
cies. 

Naturally the use of life jackets can never 
be regarded, in an way, as a substitute for camper 
expertness in the water especially as it applies to 
the particular problems of canoe and kayak travel. 
Insofar as it is possible, simulation of canoe tripp¬ 
ing emergencies should be part of the training 
experience for wilderness travellers. Further, the 
trip leader should have either by experience or 
by inquiry, knowledge of what to expect on the 
trip being taken. Knowing this, a realistic decision 
ought to be made on the readiness of campers for 
the anticipated voyage. 

Finally it is admitted that the element of ad¬ 
venture in camping is and must continue to be an 
important consideration. The thrill, excitement and 
daring of wilderness travel does evoke enthusias¬ 
tic response from young people. There is an unique 
appeal in the opportunity that camping proffers 
for freedom to express, to venture, to explore, to 
discover, to improvise, to innovate, to cope with 
the unknown. Perhaps Browning's lines best reveal 
the spirit being described in "Ever over the next 
brown rise, I expect some wonderful thing to 
flatter my eyes". Such freedom, however, must 
be accompanied with a clear awareness of the 
responsibilities which belong to the camper, his 
leader and ultimately with the sponsoring organ¬ 
ization. 

Some decisions must be made! First an ap¬ 
praisal of the values of each project must be con¬ 
sidered. Is the plan one which will produce worthy 
results or is it an exercise in foolhardiness? Second¬ 
ly, having concluded that a planned outing is of 
value to the participants, some realistic calculation 
must be made of the risks involved. Those risks 
must be intelligently counterbalanced by precau¬ 
tions which will not detract unduly from the ad¬ 
venture of planned experience. It is from this line 
of reasoning that the writer has resolved to use 
life jackets under the terms and conditions out¬ 
lined above. 


24 



C.I.T. SPEAKING 


by Carolyn Ann Bennett 

This essay was prepared in November , 1967, following Carolyn’s 
participation in the leadership training programs at the Ontario Camp 
Leadership Centre (Bark Lake), Sarroio Lake Camp and Camp Sha * 
tvanga. 


A statement in the foreword of the CAMP 
COUNSELLOR'S MANUAL could prove frightening 
to the first year counsellor. It states, "Directors of 
all types of camps agree that the focal point of 
success or failure in morale, camp spirit, harmony, 
co-operation, true education, and character growth 
is the tent leader or cabin counsellor". The passage 
concludes by stating that although good food, 
sanitation, health and water safety are necessary, 
the more important gains in attitude, improve¬ 
ment in personal habits, enrichment of friendship, 
and growth of personality are usually traceable 
to the influence of an able and consecrated coun¬ 
sellor. If thoroughly understood, these statements 
prove to be the key to successful counselling. Any 
person who has been a counsellor and found satis" 
faction in contributing positively to the growth and 
development of her cabin group, knows that the 
effort is worthwhile. 


If Norman Rockwell were to illustrate the 
ideal counsellor for the cover of POST, we could 
probably guess beforehand how she might appear. 
She would be of average build, neatly dressed, 
sporting a sun hat, clutching paddle, bow, fishing 
rod, mask, snorkel and fins, guitar, tennis racquet 
and knapsack. Most evident (in spite of the equip¬ 
ment) would be an understanding and enthusiastic 
smile. Of course, the drawing would be an exa- 
geration but certainly all her gear would demon¬ 
state one of the prerequisites of a good counsellor 
— ability in camping skills. Campers admire coun¬ 
sellors who excel in some skill; swimming, canoe" 
ing, sailing, campcraft, music or story-telling. 
Ability in these various skills helps build the coun¬ 
sellor's self-confidence, a basis from which she 
can proceed to develop leadership skills. 

However, it is of little use to be expert in 
skills if one cannot convey these to campers. In 




FREEZE-DRIED FOODS 


Meats • Vegetables • Fruits 
Egg Dishes • Sandwich Mixes 
Main Dishes • Large Packs 


Write for price lists and brochure 



For All Marine 
Camping Needs . . . 

SKIS - LIFEJACKETS 
ROPE, SAILS, FLAGS 
NAUTICAL CLOTHING 
FOUL WEATHER GEAR 
ALL BOATING APPAREL 
DECK SHOES 
SAILBOAT HARDWARE 
POWER BOAT HARDWARE 

... Write for our 

complete ’70 catalogue 

/sCTHi/ 

MARINE DISTRIBUTORS 

LIMITED 

136 Adelaide St. East at Jarvis 
TORONTO, CANADA 

362-8586 , 


25 



camp counselling the emphasis is placed upon oral 
communication of skills rather than actual per¬ 
formance. The advantage of possessing skill to 
some degree is acknowledged. It is a surprising 
but accepted fact that often the skill experts are 
not the best teachers. It is reasoned that an in¬ 
structor who herself has had difficulty mastering 
a skill will be more alert to the problems ex¬ 
perienced by the learners. A counsellor should not 
decide that she cannot teach for the reason that 
she cannot perform perfectly. Some of the best 
diving coaches in the world cannot themselves 
perform the dives they teach. A good instructor 
must have a basis of technical knowledge and be 
capable of conveying this in a clear and concise 
manner. The interest and enthusiasm of the learner 
must be maintained. 

Skills are only a small part of organized 
camping. More important is the leadership and 
guidance given to every camper. In this respect 
counselling becomes a twenty-four hour a day 
job and it is in this area that one reaps the greatest 
satisfaction. A counsellor must be prepared to 
awaken at three or four in the morning to talk in¬ 
telligently to a homesick or frightened camper. 
Moments such as these can be trying, but through 
the summer some little thing will happen that 
makes the counsellor know that she is contributing 
to the development of the camper. These moments 
give the counsellor a special warm feeling. Leader¬ 
ship qualities are revealed in the ability to initiate, 
to make the campers feel they thought of the idea 
themselves; to make effective judgments — the 
rule, "If in doubt — don't"; to be responsible — the 
counsellor, camper, director and parent have a 
stake in camping; to organize both herself and 
others; to accept criticism — a necessity for smooth 
relations between staff. These leadership qualities 
usually improve during the summer and eventually 
become natural responses. 

With skill and leadership ability, the camp 
counsellor must posses personal characteristics 
which ensure an enjoyable summer for herself 
and others. One such quality is good grooming 
at all times. There is a great temptation to return 
absolutely filthy from a canoe trip . . . soap and 
water are available! Keenness is important in that 
no one can expect campers to become enthusias¬ 
tic if the counsellor is not. Counsellors should be 
impartial and mix readily and easily with compers 
and staff. The most important quality of a good 
counsellor is something called "emotional ma¬ 
turity". This is a pretentious term but simply 
amounts to the quality one thinks of first in a 
favorite counsellor. As a camper one could never 
find a name for it, but it was just that she knew 
how to handle every situation; make the fairest 
decision; was patient and always had a sense of 
humor in the most difficult circumstances. She 
was "terrific" and it was mainly these personal 
characteristics which were so impressive. 


I guess each of us would like to be the 
counsellor our campers looked back upon as their 
favourite. However, we would also want to feel 
that we were the type of counsellor we would 
entrust with our own children. I would conclude 
that an individual should be a mixture of both 
along with one or two magical powers in order 
to be totally effective as a camp counsellor. 


When You Buy 
Remember Our 
Advertisers: 


Bi-Mor Frozen Food Service, Ltd. 19 

Chestnut Canoe Co., Ltd. 10 

Continental Casualty Company Outside Back 

Foam Sales Reg'd. 16 

Federation of Ontario Naturalists 19 

Freeze-Dry Foods, Ltd. 25 

Gibbons Foods Inside Front 

Hobart Manufacturing Co., Ltd. 19 

Jiffy Products, Inc. 27 

John Leckie, Ltd. 18 

Lewiscraft 18 

Lily Cups, Limited 23 

North West Canvas, Ltd. . 21 

Pool Man Limited . 15 

Quaker Oats Co. of Canada, Ltd. 7 

J. M. Schneider, Limited 19 

Stafford Foods, Limited 21 

Starkman Chemists, Ltd. 23 

Tom Taylor Marine Distributors, Ltd. 25 

Jack Watson Sporting Goods, Ltd. 16 


26 


















PRODUCTS INC. 


Campers multi-use repair kits for 1970 

• QUALITY DESIGNED • PACKAGED TO SELL 

• ENABLING "ON-THE-SPOT" REPAIRS 

Repair: tents, tarpaulins, boat covers, boat sails, truck covers, beach and 

laundry bags, pack sacks, awnings, deck chairs, curtains, scouting 
equipment. . . 

air mattresses, sleeping bags, rubber boats, ground sheets . . . 
netting, peg-straps etc. 

Replace: grommets and snaps, broken zippers etc. 

while camping, scouting, boating, hunting, fishing or on the farm. 



ITEM 1D1 

mn -;-o' 

CAMPERS CANVAS REPAIR KIT 


Camper's Multi-Use Repair Kit 
Sugg. Ret. Price $4.25 ea. 


ITEM 1 □ 2 



Jiffy Air Mattress Repair Kit 
Sugg. Ret. Price $0.98 ea. 


ITEM 104 



Jiffy Sew Canvas Repair Kit 
Sugg. Ret. Price $0.98 ea. 


ITEM 11 □ 


irorr~Tg 



Grommet Patch Kit 
Sugg. Ret. Price $1.49 ea. 



72” HD Zipper Kit 
Sugg. Ret. Price $4.98 ea. 


ITEM 126 


ITEM 127 



INSTALLATION HT 


%hap uinwi 

INSTALLATION KIT 




Grommet Installation Kit 
Sugg. Ret. Price $7.98 ea. 


Snap Fastener Installation Kit 
Sugg. Ret. Price $2.98 ea. 



JIFFY PRODUCTS INC., MONTREAL, P.Q., CANADA. 











































































Since 1954 campers have been paid over one quarter 
of a million dollars from this plan. Benefits paid are 
increasing each year — proof of the need for your 
camp-guard plan. 

*A choice of plans for all organizational, church and private camps 
providing broad medical expense protection for each accident and each 
sickness at low cost group rates for both campers and staff members. 

Put camp-guard on your programme. 

Display this symbol and let parents know 
your camp is covered. This symbol of 
outstanding coverage assures them you 
take added interest in your camper's wel¬ 
fare, by providing a camp-guard accident 
and sickness plan. 

Your local insurance agent will help you 
choose the right plan for your camp; or 
write our nearest office for full particulars. 



ACCIOIKT mn4 SICKNiSS 


INSURANCE 

DISPLAY THIS SYMBOL 

STICKERS AVAILABLE FOR YOUR STATIONERY 




CONTINENTAL CASUALTY COMPANY 


VANCOUVER 5, 160 Bloor St. East 5 p l acc Vi H c Mane 

Suite 410, 1281 West Georgia St. TORONTO MONTREAL 2, QUEBEC 

MUtual 4-6381 924-4692 Victor 9-5303 

Suite 660, 1 Thornton Court, EDMONTON, GA. 4-7322 

202-209 Notre Dame, WINNIPEG 2, WH. 3-8723 Suite 403, 600 6th Avenue S.W., CALGARY, AM. 3-1937 













