coiMMikin 

compino 


Official Publication 
Publication Officielle 

102 Eglinton Ave., E. , Suite 203 


The Canadian Camping Association Vol. 29 

L'Association des Camps du Canada No# 2 

Toronto, Ontario M4P 1E1 March 1977 


NEWS 


AND VIEWS 


FROM ACROSS CANADA 

Space is at a premium and therefore 
the highlights will be abbreviated# 

First.Congratulations to Jack 

Pearse who has been elected incoming 
President of C.C.A., also receiving 
acclamation is Paul Belanger the new 
Vice-President 

The 40th Anniversary of the English 
section of the Q.C.A. was indeed a great 
celebration# Telegrams from several spots 
around the world were received by Presi¬ 
dent Derek Walsh and the weekend Confer¬ 
ence (March 25 - 27) was a tremendous suc¬ 
cess due to the efforts of so many people 
including Chairman Wilf. Jackson. There 
was an impressive list of past presidents 
of Q.C.A. in attendance, namely; Norrey 
| Owens, Zave Ettinger, Ross Seaman, Bob 
Jlazanick, Peter van Wagner, Bill McCarthy 
,and Val Willis. Special recognition was 
given to -Miss Frances Kelly who for many 
years has been the backbone of the English 
section of Q.C.A. 

Mrs. Phil Lowes must now be enjoying 
many warm feelings of satisfaction as a 
result of the extremely successful Q.C.A . 
Conference (March 3-6). There was a 
record number of 552 Directors and Senior 
Staff attending the conference at the 
Royal York Hotel. The Q.C.A. was also 


pleased to welcome representatives from, 
not only the United States, but also al¬ 
most every province in Canada. Mrs. Clif 
Labbett co-ordinated a lucky draw and as 
a result of the countless number of peo¬ 
ple who participated in this fund-raising 
drive, a little more than $3000*00 was 
raised - thereby putting the O.C.A. out 
of the red for the first time in a couple 
of years. The C.C.A. is pleased to an¬ 
nounce the election of Jocelyn Palm as 
incoming President, with Mrs. Barbara 
Gilchrist as President Elect and Mrs. 

Phil Lowes as Vice-President# 

President Ron Johnstone has, as usual, 
been very active and busy. Throughout 
the past six weeks he has been able to 
visit and meet with representatives of 
associations in every Province. He has 
also met with the planning committee of 
the 1979 A.C.A. Conference in Minnesota, 
and was a speaker at the Mid-Atlantic 
Regional Convention of the A.C.A. held in 
Buffalo at the end of March. Ron has 
Stated that he was very happy to be in¬ 
volved with the M*C.A . Workshop in 'Winni¬ 
peg. Under Punch Jackson's leadership, 
camping experts such as Bob Douglas and 
Gord Stewart were most helpful, as the 
group met together to discuss future plans 
and priorities. 

At the request of some of the camping 
people on the east coast, C.C.A. provided 
funds for Standard's Chairman Lome 
Bowering and Dave Campbell to go to Hali¬ 
fax to discuss Provincial Camping Stan¬ 
dards. George Matthews was responsible 

(cont. on page 9) 
















By Dr. Diane Pick - Reprinted from Camping Magazine. , the official publication 

of the American Camping Association, February 1977* 

For many campers the waterfront, be it a lake or a pool, is one of the most ex¬ 
citing places in camp. Often, time spent in swimming lessons or just playing in or 
near the water is the most looked forward to part of the day. 

Exciting and funny relay races can offer a change of pace experience in an aqua¬ 
tics environment. They can provide a way to bring a swimming lesson to a close, or 
add interest or excitement to a recreational swimming period. To add a form of com¬ 
petition to the waterfront program, campers and counsellors can be divided into from 
two to four teams, and a series of novelty races can be strung together for an after¬ 
noon water carnival. 


A theme or story can be used to weave the events together and provide unity. For 
instance, in a carnival with a Fairy Tale theme, participants can swim with the 
wicked witch’s broom from the Wizard of Oz, carry Red Riding Hood’s bucket, pick up 
Ruraplestilskin’s gold (yellow painted rocks), swim on top of a pile of mattresses 
(kickboards) from the Princess and the Pea, swim with a pumpkin (ball) between the 
legs from Cinderella, a poisoned apple under the chin from Snow White, and collect 
a table service from the bottom for Alice in Wonderland’s tea party. The possi¬ 
bilities are limited only by one’s imagination. 

Most races can be adapted for the various skill levels of swimmers. Objects to 
be picked up off the bottom can be put in deep water for advanced swimmers or shal¬ 
low water for beginners. Objects to be carried can be swum with in deep water by 
more advanced swimmers or walked with or run with by beginners in shallow water. 

Almost all races work equally well in both pools and lakes. The only caution 
offered for those with pools is to make sure that all equipment is counted so that 
none is left floating or on the bottom of the pool. 

Try some of the following. Each is done relay style except as noted. 


Carrying objects from person to 
person 

a. Broom 

b. Empty bucket or pail 

c. Old umbrella, carried open 

d. Cut out shape of a heart, 
clock, animal, etc. 

e. Letter or "secret message" in 
a large envelope 

f. Paper flag 

g. Coloured water in a cup filled 
to a marked level so that water 
spilled of added to that already 2 


*in the cup will be noticed 

h. Paper lantern 

i. Cup on top of plate carried 
waiter style 

j. Lighted candle (if it goes out 
the swimmer must return to get 
it relit) 

k. Towel in one hand (or one in 
each hand for advanced swimmers) 
that must be kept dry 

(cont. on page 3 )l 



Water delays 


l \ 


r*s 


(cont. from page 2 ) 

2. Blowing objects from person to person 

a. Small balloons 

b. Ping pong balls 

c. Small toy sailboats 

3. Carry object balanced in bowl or tea¬ 
spoon with the handle of the spoon 
held in the mouth or in the hand. 
(Dropped objects must be retrieved, 
so use ones that sink for better 
swimmers, ones that float for inter¬ 
mediates.) 

a. Hard boiled egg 

b. Golf or ping pong ball 

c. Peanut 

4. Kickboard relays 

a. Hold one board between the lower 
legs 

b. Sit on top of two or three 
boards; hold them with one hand 
and paddle with the other while 
in a sitting position 

c. Lie on top of two or three 
boards; hold on with one hand 
and pull with the other 

5. Ball relays 

a. Push a floating ball from per¬ 
son to person by hitting it with 
the forehead 

b. Hold a ball between the legs 

c. Hold a ball up out of the water 
with both hands while kicking 
with the legs 

6. Inner tube relays 

a. Sit in and use the hands to 
paddle 

b. Sit in and paddle backwards 

c. Sit in and paddle with a broom 
or pie plate 

d. Put feet through and use only 
the arms 


8. Clothes (use pajamas or sweat-shirts, 
jeans, shoes; funny props such as ci¬ 
gars and hats, add to the fun) 

a. One person swims across, climbs 
out, disrobes, the next dresses, 
swims, etc. with teammates hel¬ 
ping each other dress and undress 

b. Wearing everything, one person 
swims across, takes off an item 
of clothing, swims back, takes 
off another, etc. 

c. All swimmers enter the water ful¬ 
ly dressed and attempt to be the 
first to ’take it all off" 

9. Tied together (very advanced' swimmers 
only) 

a. Tie inside legs of two people 
together 

b. Swimmers swim with only their 
arms; legs are tied together 
(mermaid style) 

c. Two swimmers swim with their 
inner legs tied together and a 
balloon tied in between; any 
group breaking its balloon is 
disqualified 

10. Retrieving floating object - teams 
work in water together, but swim¬ 
mers can retrieve only only one ob¬ 
ject at a time and bring it back to 

a check in point before returning for 
another. (Good variation is to re¬ 
trieve the object by grabbing it be¬ 
tween the teeth.) 

a. Corks 

b. Pencils 

c. Tongue depressors 

11. Carry under the chin - object is 
placed under the chin, person cannot 

i use hands to keep it there; passing 
is done chin to chin 


7. Reading aloud, holding the object out 
of the water, kicking while lying on 
the back 

a. Newspaper 

b. Comic Book 3 


a. Apple 

b. Orange 

c. Small rubber ball 

(cont. on page 9 ) 



PARENTAL MOTIVATION AFFECTING THE ATTENDANCE 
OF CHILDREN AT SUMMER CAMP 


by Madeleine Allen 

Part 1: Information collected from data from Camp Ouareau, a summer camp for girls. 

The aim of this study is to discover the reasons that parents feel that camping is 
important in the development of their children. 

A general questionnaire was sent to one hundred and fifty parents along with a 
general camp mailing in May to campers registered at Camp Ouareau. Camp Ouareau is 
an English speaking, girls 1 private camp in the province of Quebec, with a total re¬ 
gistration of one hundred and ninety-five campers over the two month summer period. 
The difference in numbers of registrations and questionnaires sent out takes into 
account families of two or more children, and six week and season campers. The 
usual registration period is four weeks. 

To encourage frankness from the parents the questionnaires did not need to be 
signed, nor was it coded in any way. The response was extremely high with 100 of 
the 150 returned, or 66 %. 

The questionnaire asked for: 

- the age of the camper 

- the number of years that the child had in organized camping? 

- what type of camp the child had previously attended (if any)? 

- did the mother or father go to camp? to what type of camp? and the number 
of years in camper or staff roles? 

(This was asked to discern if parents without camping experience 
themselves had different priorities as to why they wanted their 
children to attend camp and if the children began camping at the 
same type of camp that their parents attended.) 

- did children have experience living at a cottage or farm? 

- a list of seven reasons as to why parents may wish their children to attend 
camp. 

(This final part of the questionnaire is considered to be the 
core section. The list was compiled from my own observations, 
and from talking with campers and parents over the years.) 

They were placed in random order: 

1. Learning to live with others 

2. Widening contacts (meeting children from different 
locales and backgrounds) 

3. Developing independence 

4. Learning another language 

5. Family situations(problems, new baby, travel, etc.) 

6. Fun in the out-of-doors 

7. Learning skills 

8. Other 

Parents were asked to list these on a scale of 1 to 3» 

_4_(cont on page 5 )_ 




(cont. from page 4 ) 


Parental Motivation Affecting Attendance 

Intially, I gathered the data by age only, under the headings of the seven items. 
This was done in two operations; firstly, those which rated a top priority (i.e # l); 
and secondly, the three reasons (i.e. 1-3). A weighted average was done, but since 
the results showed little difference from an equal weighting, the latter was chosen 
since the information to be used from it was deemed less confusing. 

Once the numhers were recorded, percentages were taken. See chart page 7» This 
was a somewhat unwieldy set of figures for general conclusions so the ages were 
grouped into the common age divsions. Junior (6-9), Intermediate (10-12), and Senior 
(13-15). These groups were looked at from both a sectional as well as topic view. 

A total of 27 replies were obtained from Junior parents, 42 from Intermediate parents 
and 22 from Senior Parents. These numbers were proportional to our total registration 
in each section. 

A - TOP PRIORITY ANALYSIS 

Living with others was deemed most important with 40% of the parents. 

Fun in the out-of-doors was second with 28 % 

It is significant, that skills rated last . I believe that there are two reasons 
for this. Eighty-two per cent of the families have summer cottages available, 
so that the children do have opportunities to take part in out-door activities. 
Secondly, most of the children come from large cities where swimming and sports 
are available in the schools and youth clubs which offer other activities such as 
crafts, drama, etc. 

Looking at the data topically by section, we found that living with others is 
approximately equally important to parents of all age groups . It is interesting tc 
note that fun is of primary importance to parents of senior age children (45%) as 
contrasted to 26 % of intermediate age and 15 % of junior age. 

The question arises from this that are parents of this older group aware, 
then, perhaps painfully so, of the stresses society is putting on this 
age group to grow up, and of the short time left of their pseudo-child¬ 
hood? The parents of younger children just assume, I hope correctly, that 
their youger "childish" children will have fun regardless. This leads me 
to question camps' emphasis on skills and of giving this older age group 
any autonatic, built-in over emphasis of responsibility. Should we not 
continue, or go back to, letting them just be themselves, to relax and 
have fun without the stresses and challenges of responsibility... be it 
tribal chiefs, test passing, "super senior" programs, team leadership, or 
what have we, unless they themselves, the individual camper, really wants 
it? It also leads me to advocate the continuing close relationships, or 
the development thereof, the director and senior staff with the senior 
age group , to find what they are seeking and what they consider to be fun 
at camp. This then must become fully balanced with the desires of the 
parents and our own, and our camp philosophy. 

The other topics had very predictable results with the parents of the younger 
children being more concerned about the growth of independence than the older ones. 

A word should be said explaining the development of the language portion of the 
questionnaire. Ouareau is the only English speaking, private, girls' camp in the 

5 (cont. on page 6 ) 





Parental Motivation Affecting Attendance (cont. from page 5) 

province of Quebec. There is a great desire on the part of many French speaking 
parents to have their children learn English. We have no special program for 
these children, but limit our registration to 10% of these cnildren whose first 
language is French, in each section, so that those who do come will have the ex¬ 
perience of almost total immersion in the English language. 

B - CUMULATIVE RESULT ANALYSIS 

When the results are looked at in the light of the top three priorities, or cumu¬ 
lative information, they are basically the same proportionally. Two significant fac¬ 
tors come out however: Living with others is mentioned by 87 % of the Intermediate 
age group, as contrasted to 66% of the other two groups. This 10-12 age group, in 
fact, do seem to have more general problems in this field, but yet, as we all know, 
they are perhaps the easiest group to work with be ause of their enthusiasm and lack 
of deep established opinions. It is probably the basic reason why parents of this 
age group feel that they should have the camping experience at this age, and why, 
most children start at this age. 

The other interesting thing is that skills are mentioned more often as second and 
third level and that they have basically the same priority across the age groups... 
an average of 48%. 

C - OTHER REASONS MENTIONED 

It was somewhat surprising that more parents did not avail themselves of this 
section of the questionnaire, but those who did brought forth some interesting 
points, which perhaps should have been included in the overall list. Two parents 
mentioned "a chance for parents to be alone" and "developmental discipline". Other 
things which were mentioned were "learning about the environment", "learning to 
appreciate outdoor living", "responsibility for one's own self", "happy, structured, 
disciplined experience." And perhaps the most interesting, which should make us 
stop and think, "to have peace and privacy of herself, to think and dream." That 
was from the parent of an eleven year old. 

D - PARENTAL CAMPING BACKGROUND 

On examining the data in relation to the parents' camping experience, it seems on 
the whole to hold very little significance. The only fact which stands out clearly 
is that the growth of independence is much more important to the parents who have 
both attended camp than to others. Skills are also more important to this group, 
perhaps because they are more aware of the level to which skills are taught. 

For the record, parents' camp background is as follows: 

Mother at camp: 44; 14 had been on staff. 

Agency: 21, Church: 8, Private: 24, Co-ed: 3. 

Father at camp: 47; 15 had been on staff. 

Agency: 19, Church: 6, Private: 27, Co-ed: 3 

Neither parent at camp: 35, Mother only: 15, Father only: 20 , Both: 26 . 

This information will be stored away in case it may be interesting in the 

light of future surveys. 

In retrospect it might have been more important to ask which parent filled out 

6 (cont. on page 7 ) 




n 



Parental Motivation Affecting Attendance (cont. from page 6) 

the form, because unless it was done jointly, the opinions of the person filling 
out the questionnaire would be more significant than which parent went to camp. I 
shall ask this on future surveys. 

E - CAMPERS 1 PREVIOUS EXPERIENCE 

Only 30 children or 33% had been to 
lb% had been to am agency camp 
9% had been to day camps 
5% had been to co-ed camps 
2% had been to church camps 
60 % had attended private camps 
This information too, will be filed 

F - GENERAL COMMENTS 

Research was defined as the satisfying of curiosity. That is what this survey 
is doing at the moment, and it would be presumptuous of me to draw any great conslu- 
sions at this stage, for the basic idea at present, is comparison. Are parents all 
alike in what they basically desire for their children, or are there great differen¬ 
ces based on sex, age economic background, and place of residence? If there is, how 
should this affect our programs? If there isn't, does this affect anything at all? 
In three or four years, I hope to have some of the answers. 

Being purely practical, a great number of children attend a certain camp because 
of a friend, or because of good advertising, or because a parent may just think it 
is a good idea. I don't think for a moment that very many parents have all the cri¬ 
teria which I have listed in their minds when they make the decision to send a child 
to camp, so perhaps a questionnaire of this sort is valid, if only because it makes 
parents stop and think of their motives, and if it helps them realize that camps are 
indeed, interested in the growth of their children. 


other types of camp before. 

20% of parents had 
no parents had 
2% of parents had 
7% of parents had 
- 26 % of parents had 

for future comparative puposes. 


CHART A : Percentage of Parents Rating Each Category as Top Priority (i.e. # l) 


Seniors 


Independence 5 

Living with Others J>6 

Contacts 0 

Fun 45 

Skills 0 

Language 9 

Family 5 

r*\ 

Total Polled 22 


Intermediates 

Juniors 

Overall 

12 

30 

15 

4l 

4l 

4o 

3 

0 

2 

26 

15 

28 

2 

0 

1 

5 

15 

9 

10 

0 

6 

42 

27 

91 


7 



NATIONAL QUESTIONNAIRE 


For many years, the Executive of the 
C.G.A. has been trying to discover what 
is really happening in the field of or¬ 
ganized children's camping across the 
country. In order to appear to be an 
organization with a strong foundation, 
and a knowledgeable spokesman for camping, 
it has always been essential to know what 
we are talking about when we meet members 
of the media, as well as Government of¬ 
ficials. 

Now, as a result of the help and co¬ 
operation of many Provincial Associations 
and the member camps, we have been able 
to at least tabulate some reasonably clear 
statistics about the Canadian Camping 
scene. Of course some Camp Directors re¬ 
fused to co-operate..... feeling that we 
were invading their privacy, or that the 
figures would be used to embarrass them. 
The only comment which seems realistic is 
that if we are unable to provide reason¬ 
able figures for the Government, we will 
then be legislated into answering cer¬ 
tain questions .... with no option to be 
coy or evasive! 

To those who helped, the C.C.A. ex¬ 
tends thank and gratitude. We would hope 
that next year, (the statistical ques¬ 
tionnaire is going to be continued on an 
annual basis), more Directors and Camp 
Chairmen will be able to assist us. 

Based on a projection, determined from 
the statistics returned the following 
might be of interest to those in Canadian 
Camping. 

There were: 

68,000 Camper Spaces Available in 1976 
260,000 Campers attended Member Camps. 

Of the 32,000 staff members in 1976, 
22,000 were paid and 10,000 were volun- 
teersi while 1,600 came from outside 
Canada. 

Food Costs equalled $8,000,000 (not in¬ 
cluding Salaries, fuel and kitchen sup¬ 
plies); Other costs ( excluding food and 
salaries to talled $14.000.000 8 


Particular thanks to the Camping As¬ 
sociations in New Brunswick, Alberta, 
British Columbia and Quebec.... Their mem¬ 
bers responded to the questionnaire by 
over 50 $. 


CAMP DIRECTOR 


JOHN BOSCO CAMP 
(Mile 4l Hanson Lake Road) 

The successful candidate must be a com¬ 
mitted Christian, preferably a Priest. 
Have an educational background of Philo¬ 
sophy, Sociology, and Psychology, be 21 
years of age or older, and have 3 to 5 
years of senior leadership camping. He 
should have proven leadership ability 
with young people; and managerial tech¬ 
niques related to general accounting, 
personnel, purchasing and programming. 

Salary: To be negotiated 

Employment: 12 months, negotiable yearly 


Apply to: 


Mr. Don Sherman 
President 
Box 596 

Wynyard, Saskatchewan 

SOA 4T0 

(306) 544-2825 


BOULDERWOOD CAMP 
Baysville, Ontario 

Available for lease - the summer of 1977 

Contact: Ken Thomas 

Sheridan Realty, Ltd. 

R.R. # 1 

Markham, Ontario L3P 3J2 
(4l6) 294-5510 








CAMPING 


A Real- Life Experience in Our Natural Environment 

by Kenneth Robinson 

Lasting change is the result of real-life and direct experiences. Children grow 
as a result of positive experiences which lead to constructive change. Organized 
camping provides campers with a chance to live what they are learning, and offers no 
theory without practice. These observations made by Rodney and Ford in their book 
" Camp Administration ", when considered in relation to camping's close association of 
its purpose with a setting in the natural environment, point to the unique role of 
camping in child development. 

This affiliation of camping objectives with location in the natural milieu, we of¬ 
ten overlook. John Kirk of the American Camping Association says that many camp pro¬ 
grams use the outdoors merely as a theatrical backdrop for activities that have no 
special relationship to this setting. He cites as examples; tennis, riding, golf, 
dramatics, and some arts and crafts. Further, in publicity some camp directors 
promise teaching of skills, social values, and physical values without relating these 
to an awareness of the natural surroundings. These skills are, no doubt, of value to 
children, but they are not what makes camping unique for the child. It is the loca¬ 
tion in a natural environment and the resulting opportunities for a child to increase 
his awareness of the natural world that are significant. 

What positive real-life experiences in these natural surrounding can we as camp 
leaders offer and what constructive changes in our campers’ growth do these lead to? 

One such occurrence is that of meditation in nature's beauty. How often in a 
person's everyday life does he pause to contemplate life and its meaning to him as 
an individual? Thoughts become crystal clear when, away from the hustle and bustle 
of school and home, he can pause in the solitude of the forest. This is a time for 
self discovery and spiritual awakening. Caught up in the wonder of life in the woods 
a camper finds he can be alone without being lonely. As said by Kirk Wipper, direc¬ 
tor of Camp Kandalore, the quantity issues of speed and efficiency are balanced by 
an appreciation of the quality issues of serenity, peace and freedom. In awe of tte 
expansiveness of nature, our campers can develop a veneration for life. 

Picture a solitary canoeist gliding over the becalmed waters of a lake at dusk. 

The sunset casts a red hue over the horizon. In the silence, he hears only the wa¬ 
ter drops dripping from his paddle blade. He pauses to think, "What is important in 
life?" "What am I trying to accomplish?" "What stands in my way?" 

He may always remember this moment of peace. Nature may to him become precious.. 
..Something he will not want to destroy. 

But in addition to times for meditation, there are interludes of fun and enjoy¬ 
ment. These are generally spontaneous and they seem to be happening everywhere at 
camp. In leisure the reward is found in doing an activity unlike work where the end 
product is what matters. Life is much more fulfilling if we develop a sense of hu¬ 
mour. Think of the many pranks that kids play at camp. These are a good measure 
of how much campers are enjoying themselves. 

10_(cont. on page 11 )_ 



Camping - A Real-life Experience 


(cont. fromi page 10 ) 


As well as the times for meditation and fun, there are opportunities £oar challenge 
and adventure in the outdoors. 

Our campers can reach beyond what they are to what they might become. They can 
test their ability in adapting to situations unknown to them before. Wippear calls 
this the "quest for zest". Nature offers many challenges and it is in answe rin g 
this summons to adventure that campers can find self identity. A feeling of per¬ 
sonal worth including a sense of esteem, accomplishment and self assurance are posi¬ 
tive outcomes of adventurous outdoor activities. 

This quest for zest is basic to all persons. I remember well the proudl expression 
on the face of Gerrard, one of our young paraplegic day-campers, on the mormriirrg after 
his first overnight campout. Confined to a wheelchair through all eight years of his 
life, this was the first time he had ever slept under the stars and cooked his own 
breakfast over a campfire. Adventure is relative to one's previous experiences, and 
it had never occurred to Gerrard - (or his family) that he too could be a real, out¬ 
door sman. 

Another opportunity for camper development is in learning skills that help in 
leading a self fulfilling life. In their encounter with the natural environment, our 
campers learn skills and knowledge that are useful in their home community. Camping 
must not become a retreat where people live in isolation from the rest of the world 
around them. Day camping, with its close association between the natural milieu and 
the urban surroundings, has an extra obligation to clarify the connection between 
the camp and home environments. For instance, littering at camp can be related to 
sanitation of city streets and and even air and water pollution. Knowing the natural 
environment and caring for it will inspire a camper to use it wisely. He will want 
to share this concern with his friends. In doing this, he is acquiring the beginnings 
of a sense of civic responsibility. At camp our children learn about the interdepen¬ 
dency of life. They understand that if one life form is destroyed or changed, the 
quality of life for other living things is diminished. If the swamp at camp is 
drained, the waterfowl and marsh animals are left homeless. Similarly, if a natural 
ravine in the city is developed for housing, it cannot support the life forms which 
now thrive there. In the outdoors, our campers come to understand their role in the 
world. Other positive changes in campers as a result of learning outdoor skills are 
improved physical fitness and increased independence. Referring back to Gerrard, 
this was his first cooking experience. Going back home, he began to help Mom with 
some of the cooking in the kitchen. 

Besides all these personal experiences, we camp leaders offer group living situa¬ 
tions in the outdoors. Especially significant for some disadvantaged younsters, is 
the companionship and respect given by counsellors and fellow campers. Relieved of 
pressures and anxieties present in the home community, these children start off with 
a clean slate in the freedom of the out-of-doors. This can lead them to a whole new 
outlook on life. Human relations for campers can cause many positive changes inclu¬ 
ding overcoming shyness, cultivating honesty and trust, and giving and accepting love. 

We can recall examples of friendships which have grown at camp. Many of us know 
counsellors who correspond with their campers throughout the winter months. Re¬ 
turning campers look forward to rejoining their camping pals next summer, and making 
new friends again next year. Opportunities for true friendships and loving are sig¬ 
nificant in establishing a positive sense of identity. 


11 


(cont. on page 12 ) 



Camping - A Real-life Experience 


(cont. from page 11) 


What are the implications of the previous observations for us as camp leaders? 

One is that camping must provide genuine opportunities for our children to open 
themselves up to the natural world. Through their resulting attraction to that world, 
they acquire an appreciation for harmony in life. Rather than abusing nature, they 
will use it wisely, for it has acquired meaning for them. Organized camping is bet¬ 
ter able to offer this significant encounter with the natural environment than any 
other institution. Are our objectives truly associated with the outdoor setting? 

Are we really making the most of this mileau? 

But caution must be exercised to assure that this affiliation with nature does 
not become a retreat, disassociated from the children’s home life. The city boy must 
be shown how the concept of pure water, in the streams at camp can be studied in terms 
of urban drinking water, and sewage treatment. Air polution can be visualized in the 
smoke of campfires. Day camps, because of their close connection with the home en¬ 
vironment have a particular responsibility for relating situations at camp to reali¬ 
ties in the home community. Do our programs have relevance in our campers' real 
world? 

Closely associated with the two previous statements is the challenge to let our 
campers ejq>erience the interrelatedness of life; that, it one element in the web of 
life is changed, all life forms are affected. When walking in the forest with child¬ 
ren, we can show them the interdependency of man on other elements in the ecological 
system. Do we foster in our campers a reverence for life? 

Only in dealing with these questions can we as camp directors fulfill our uni que 
role in children's development - - that of offering to campers real-life experiences 
in the natural environment. 


Design and/Dessin et 
Printed by/tmprimd par 

National Sport and Recreation Centre Inc. 
Centre National du Sport et de la R6cr6ation Inc. 


6IK-900 NSSI 

131 d+?W OTjequo * oquouoj, 
<LOZ # *3 snueAv uoquxiSg SOI 
uoxqexoossy Suxdmeo trexpeueo 



