OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 


CANADIAN CAMPING 


•flute 19G3 9 Toronto, Canada 





























Manufacturers 


of 


the famous 

Quickset 

‘Tripping at Your Camp?’ 

Quality 

USE 

Food Products 

for Camps 

anywhere 

camp- me 

in Canada 

Economical, ready - to - go food units 

Jelly Powders 
Pudding Powders 

Pie Fillings 

Instant Puddings 

Cake Mixes 

Table Syrup 

Fruit Beverages 

Hot Chocolate 

Flavorings 

packed in 4 man water-proof packages. 

Just add water, cook, and your meal is 
ready. 

Because of the increased interest in 
Camp-Rite we have added more dinners, 
desserts and dehydrated vegetables. 

You will also be agreeably surprised at 
the new prices. 

Soup Bases 

Ask the "Gibbons Man" for more 

Marmalades 

information on Camp-Rite or write to us 

Jams 

direct. 

Fruit Pie Fillings 


GIBBONS FOODS LTD. 

49 ADVANCE ROAD 

TELEPHONE BE. 2-142) 


TORONTO 18, CANADA 




EATON'S 



... with the 
right accessories 
for happy camping 





Blue lake and rocky shore 
abound with songs, laughter, 
and campers garbed in outfits 
from EATON’S Camp Centres. 
You’ll find T-shirts and 
sweatshirts bearing camp 
crests; regulation outfits 
of at least 14 well-known 
camps; trained staff 
members to help supply 
your campers’ needs. 

For information, 
write, call in person, 
or phone UN. 1-5111. 


CAMP'S^ 
METACAMI^ 


EATON'S of CANADA 


Boys’ Camp Centre 
Main Store—Second Floor 
Girls’ Camp Centre 
Main Store—Third Floor 


H; a )» 


'Foronto, Canada, June 1963 


123 





















OUR "VANGUARD" STYLE 
With Draining and Stacking Features 


375 Danforth Road, 
Scarborough, Ont. 
(Phone OX. 1-2179) 


4 ' 


ORDER NOW FOR BETTER 
ASSORTMENT 


WILL HOLD FOR CAMP OPENING 
LIMITED SUPPLY 


Pre-Camptime Offer of 
Substandards at Generous 
Discounts 


Items not Illustrated: 

• Vegetable Bowl 

• Platter 

• Pitcher 

• Tumbler 

• Creamer and Sugar 

• Salad Servers 

• Jam or Sugar Pot 

• Salt and Peppers 

• Soup Plate 

• Butter Dish and 
Cover 

• Gravy Boat 

Colours: Yellow, 
Green, Coral, Blue 


Extra QUALITY PAYS . . . 

and that is verified by the confidence of our customers, which continues 
year after year. 

Foodcraft specialized foods offer many unique advantages and they sum 
up to what you want—distinctive quality meals at minimum cost. 

Write for information and samples now while you have time for thorough 
examination. No obligation whatever. 

• Specialized Foods Specialized Service 

FOODCRAFT LABORATORIES LIMITED 

58-60 Duchess Street, Toronto 2, Ontario 

Telephone: 368-8088 

DISTRIBUTION ACROSS CANADA 


124 


Canadian Camping 









New Quantity Recipes — New Quantity Recipes featuring a variety 
of baked goods using Aunt Jemima Regular are now available. 

Deep Frying Folder — A new instruction folder featuring two new 
batters for deep frying ore also available. 

Quaker Packs — Various Quaker products are packed in individuals, 
regular packs, and quantity packs. 

Just write or phone the Quaker Sales Office in your district for further 
details covering service through Local Jobbers, and available Service Helps, or to: 

FOOD SERVICE DEPARTMENT 

THE QUAKER OATS COMPANY OF CANADA LIMITED, PETERBOROUGH, ONTARIO 

Suppliers to the Food Service Field 


Toronto, Canada, June 1963 


125 






Canada’s Largest 
Manufacturers and 
distributors of 
SANITATION 
PRODUCTS 

G. H. WOOD 

& COMPANY LIMITED 

TORONTO — MONTREAL — VANCOUVER 

Branches Across Canada 



{ M tt tt tt W M m *.» v v *.» *.♦ M ♦.* ♦.» ».» ♦.* «.* v »• ♦.* *• ♦.« ♦.* ♦.« ♦.« ** #.♦ #♦ *« •« #% «« #» ( 


IT'S 


FREE 


IT'S 


BIG ,TS NEW 


It's Canada's Most Complete Lcathcrcraft Catalog 


IT'S TANDY'S NEW BIG 80 PAGE CATALOG 
PLUS EXCITING NEW CAMP SUPPLEMENT. 
RUSH COUPON TODAY TO: 

TANDY CLARKE & CLARKE 


P.O. BOX 340-FD 


BARRIE, ONTARIO 



Name .. 
Address 
City . 


Prow. 


RUSH COUPON TODAY 


I 26 


Canadian Camping 






























TODAY, WHY SWAT 'EM? 


Flies and roaches and other insects get a complex so 
easy! Show ’em they’re really not wanted and they die 
like magic! 

Best way we know to make sure they get the right 
message, is to go to work with a suitable spray by 
McKemco. Flies, mosquitos, roaches . . . practically any 
insect... Use a McKemco spray and it’s over in minutes. 

Five new and different types to choose from, with a 
year ’round reliable supply service covering all your hy¬ 
giene requirements. Ask your McKemco man for details. 


21 Years of Service with Sales 

111 9A YONGE STREET, TORONTO 

and McKAGUE CHEMICALS (EASTERN) LTD. 
6309-R 421 COURTEMANCHE AVENUE, MONTREAL EAST, QUEBEC 

Toronto, Canada, June 1963 


127 





cAttention ! 

CAMP COUNSELORS CAMP DIRECTORS 

Here is a handbook which is a must for your pocket 
or for your library! 

THE CAMP COUNSELOR’S BOOK 

edited by 

Mary L. North way 

Director of Research, Institute of Child Study 
and 

Barry G. Lowes 

President, Ontario Camping Association, and 
Director , Camp Timberlane 

Valuable tips and information on every aspect of camp life, including 
understanding your campers, safety and health, a typical day, program 
ideas, out-trips, nature as well as how to become a counselor in the 
first place. 

“Useful information for counselors old and new—I would highly 
recommend its purchase for ay none involved in counseling, supervision, 
or administration of camps.” p R \y p Smith 

President, Canadian Camping Association 
Published by 

LONG MA NS CANADA LIMIT E D 


20 Cranficld Road 


Toronto 16 


Cout ributors 

Dr. Mary L. Northway 
Barry G. Lowes 
Joyce Bertram, 

Director, Camp Quarcau 

Margaret Govan, 

Director, Camp Onaiva 

Flora Morrison, 

Director, 

Camp Windy Pine Point 

David and Elsie Palter, 
Directors, Camp Kawagama 

Elizabeth Raymer, 

Director, Camp Tanamakoon 

Kirk Wipper, 

Director, Camp Kandalore 

AVAILABLE AT 
ALL BOOKSTORES 


128 


Canadian Camping 












CANADIAN CAMPING 


Vol. 15 JUNE, 1963 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 


The President’s Page...Don Smith 

Fire Protection of Campsites.A. Farrell 

Counselling the Counsellors...E. Raymer 

Sermons Under the Sun.M. Govan 

The Camp Counselor’s Book.C. Hammett 

How to Help the New Camper.Lucille Irvine 

Camping and Campgrounds in the National Parks— 

S. L. Roberts 

New Regulations Concerning Life Jackets.Barry G. Lowes 

Overseas Students are Potential Counsellors....C. S. Lennox 

Kayaks and Kamping.Kirk Wipper 

Conservation and Canoe Tripping.Alan Helmsley 

Cover cut courtesy of National Parks Branch , Government of Canada 


No. 4 


130 

131 

132 
135 

135 

136 

138 

140 

143 

146 

148 


CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 
4322 - 4a Street S.W., Calgary, Alberta 
CH. 3-6457 


Honorary President — Miss Mary Edgar 


Past Presidents 

Taylor Statten, Toronto 
Dais L. Gass, Montreal 
Anne I. Vail, Montreal 
W. E. (Ted,) Yard, Toronto 
Irwin Haladner, Toronto 
F. M. VanWagner, Montreal 
Kenneth H. Murray, Montreal 

President 

Dr. Don Smith, Edmonton 

Vice-Presidents 
Jack Way, Calgary 
Lome Bowering, Vancouver 
Mrs. Lois Pinfold, Winnipeg 
Barry G. Lowes, Toronto 
Neil B. Powter, Montreal 
Mrs. Betty Campbell, Halifax 


Executive Secretary 
Mrs. Jean Boettger 
4322 - 4a Street S.W., 
Calgary, Alberta 

Secretary 

Miss Eleanor Logan, 
c/o Y.M.C.A., 

Edmonton, Alberta 

Treasurer 

Rev. Don Maync 

Publisher , Canadian Camping 
Fred Haiblen, 

170 Bloor St. West, Toronto 
924-7117 

Editor 

Mrs. Dorothy M. Douglas, 

26 Park Ave., 

Oakville, Ont. 


Editorial Committee — 

Barry Lowes, Margaret Govan, Katherine Anson, Kirk Wipper, W. E. Yard, 
Eanswythe Flynn, Don Groff, Joyce Bertram. 


“CANADIAN CAMPING” IS PUBLISHED FOUR TIMES A YEAR BY THE CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 
CO. FOR THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION AT 170 BLOOR ST. WEST, TORONTO, ONTARIO. SUB¬ 
SCRIPTION PRICES! MEMBERSHIP IN THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION INCLUDES CANADIAN 
CAMPING: TO NON-MEMBERS, 75 CENTS PER COPY, $2.79 PER YEAR, $0.00 FOR THREE YEARS. 

AUTHORIZED AS SECOND CLASS MAIL, POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT. OTTAWA. ONT.. AND FOR PAY¬ 
MENT OP POSTAGE IN CASH. 


Toronto , Canada } June 1963 


129 


















We welcome our new president's message on . 


THE PRESIDENT'S PAGE 

by Don Smith, 

President, C.C.A. 


One of the greatest challenges facing 
the newly-elected executive of the Can¬ 
adian Camping Association is the 
matter of communication. The quar¬ 
terly publications of Canadian Camp¬ 
ing Magazine offer a very useful means 
of supplying national information to 
the members across Canada. The Edi¬ 
torial Committee, with Mrs. Dorothy 
Douglas as Editor, are to be congratu¬ 
lated on the very fine magazine that is 
published on behalf of the members 
of* the association. It is the main source 
of contact for members and provincial 
associations as Ken Murray suggested 
in his annual president’s report at 
Banff. Mr. Barry Lowes as Chairman 
of the Editorial Committee strongly 
recommended that all provinces share 
in the responsibility of supporting the 
magazine by submitting fresh, interest¬ 
ing articles for publication. He sug¬ 
gested that each province should pledge 
two articles annually. It is little to ask 
of a provincial association when one 
considers the time and energy expended 
by the editorial committee. If we be¬ 
lieve in the magazine, what it is doing 
for Canadian camping and what tre¬ 
mendous potential it has, let us share 
our experiences and interests by sub¬ 
mitting articles about them to the 
Canadian Camping Magazine. The 
editorial committee has suggested that 
in addition to the articles needed for 
regular features, special interest areas 
might include the following: emer¬ 
gency drill at the waterfront, water 
safety on canoe trips, tripping, trip 


shelters, woodcraft and outdoor cook¬ 
ing, short-term swim programme, music 
at camp, poetry, crafts, riflery, boomer- 
angs-kites-rafts, tennis courts, riding - 
trail and ring, kitchen layout and 
equipment, garbage disposal, log canoe 
rack, paddle box, erosion at camp, staff 
recruiting and supervision, discussion 
leading, reports to parents, check list 
for campers—first day, last day, small 
camp operation, and day camping. 

An additional means of communication 
is by the exchange of executive minutes, 
annual reports and special projects 
from one provincial association to an¬ 
other. The fact that we really do not 
know what is going on in Canada on 
a national basis becomes very apparent 
when one listens to the reports from 
provincial associations at the annual 
meeting. The association has published 
in the past a list of key people for each 
provincial association. It is anticipated 
that the revised version will be forth¬ 
coming in the not-too-distant future. 

Communication is a vital factor that 
demands the co-operation of every pro¬ 
vincial association and the interest of 
every member. We cannot build a 
strong association by passivity or lack of 
interest. It is not good enough to retire 
gracefully and wait for others to act. 
We must become involved and act as 
participating members. This is your 
association. The strength or weakness 
of it reflects on the merits of the 
members. _• 


130 


Canadian Camping 



Fire Protection 

of Camp Sites 


by A. Farrell, 

Fire Engineering Dept., 
Government of Ontario 


The camp sites to which references are 
made in this Address are those where 
the campers are under the close super¬ 
vision of Counsellors, and the overall 
operations of the camp site co-ordin¬ 
ated by a Camp Director. 

The campers are accommodated for 
varying periods, during which time they 
engage in a wide variety of activities, 
including swimming, boating, wood 
craft, survival training, etc. 

In some instances tents are used for 
sleeping but in most instances wood 
cabins are used; illumination may be 
by hydro or oil lamps, and there is one 
counsellor per cabin. These camps arc 
usually located on lakes and invariably 
do not have organized fire protection 
from a municipal fire department. In 
the event of fire the camps are depen¬ 
dent on themselves and must, therefore, 
make provision for such an eventuality. 
Fire extinguishing equipment should be 
provided and located in convenient 
locations around the camp. This equip¬ 
ment must be maintained in good oper¬ 
ating condition at all times, and the 
staff must be fully conversant with the 
method of operation. 

Fire equipment should be provided 
to take care of incipient fires in the 
cabins, recreation and dining areas, 
kitchen, boat storage, paint shops, 
storage of outboard motors and/or 


power mowers. In addition to these, 
some thought should be given to overall 
protection in the event that a cabin or 
other structure is involved in a major 
fire which could result in the spread to 
adjoining buildings or into the bush 
area. Equipment for this could be by 
means of a small gasoline powered fire 
pump located at the lake and ready for 
action at all times. All staff members 
must know how to operate the pump. 
Delivery of water for fire fighting may 
be by means of VA" fire hose connected 
to the pump and of sufficient length 
to cover all buildings, or by VA " or 2" 
polyethylene pipe laid beneath the sur¬ 
face of the ground with vertical risers 
having VA" valved outlets adjacent to 
the buildings to be protected, and 
sufficient VA" hose complete with 
nozzles to cover the buildings, located 
alongside the risers. This would be a 
permanent system affording good fire 
protection. 

Any camp sites at a distance from 
the main buildings should be provided 
with fire points, each equipped with 
a 45 gallon water drum and not less 
than 4 flat bottomed pails. 

Whatever protection is provided, 
training in the use and maintenance of 
the equipment is essential. The train¬ 
ing to be confined to the maintenance, 
supervisory and administrative staff— 
no camper should be expected to take 
part in this activity. 

turn to page 154 


Toronto, Canada, June 1963 


13! 



COUNSELLING THE COUNSELLORS 

As presented at the Ontario Conference, March 1963 


by Elizabeth Raymer, 
Camp Tanatnakoon 


Each year we spend many hours and 
much energy selecting the stafT vve are 
going to work with during the season 
ahead. Each year we close that season 
and for many days our thoughts are 
filled with the events and personalities 
of the days just passed. It is common¬ 
place knowledge that “hind sight is 
better than foresight”. We all have 
sudden illuminating moments—when it 
is too late—moments when we say to 
ourselves “this is what I should have 
done—this technique would have been 
better than that—why didn’t I think of 
that at the time?” 

And so the first step in this “coun¬ 
selling the counsellor” business is to 
provide yourself with a large notebook 
—and to use that notebook at the close 
of the season and throughout the 
winter. Put down those flashes of in¬ 
finite wisdom so that they may be of 
use to you in the future. Then as the 
season approaches, study the notebook 
and decide just when and how you 
will us this p roblem-solving 
compendium. 

This morning we arc to devote our 
consideration to the in-camp aspect of 
our problem. We will assume that the 
counsellor stafT has been carefully inter¬ 
viewed, assessed, assigned to jobs—that 
it has been made aware of the existence 
of rules, regulations, philosophies, aims, 
etc. before each member signed a con¬ 
tract. We will further assume that that 
stafT has had a few days of training, 
resident in the camp, during which 


days every effort has been made to 
orient this group to duties and pro¬ 
gramme organization for the weeks 
ahead. I shall further assume that 
during this pre-camp period the direc¬ 
tor has mingled with this group, talked 
with its members, and observed its 
spirit, so that now that director has a 
glimmering of what he is to deal with 
during the summer. There arc un¬ 
doubtedly a great many learned and 
technical terms to describe the various 
types of groups. I shall avoid them. 
But those of us who have been teachers 
or group leaders in varying situations 
know that every group is different from 
every other group. Is this a lethargic 
group or a very lively one? Is it noisy 
or quiet? It is a very intelligent, quick, 
energetic, problem-solving group? Is it 
one full of individualists who must be 
woven into cohesion? Is it so full of 
old timers that it threatens to split into 
“old” and “new”? Is it passively tract¬ 
able, a group of “yes-men”? Is it the 
kind that will get into mischief, or is 
it so full of loyalty and honour and 
reverence for dear old camp Gitchee 
Gamee, that every whim of the direc¬ 
tor, every slightest regulation of the 
camp will be regarded as sacred? Is it 
sensitive? Is it thick-skinned? 

The second step then is to assess the 
group. Our techniques will have to be 
adjusted to it. We must also bear in 
mind that at no time will this group 
temper remain static. It will vary with 
the weather and with the activity of the 
moment. It will change as various staff 


132 


Canadian Camping 


members leave camp for time off and 
out-trips, and assume a different aspect 
on their return. It will change with 
the impact of a mass of visitors. Some¬ 
times it will be influenced by forces 
entirely outside camp Gitchee Gamee, 
such as world affairs and local ones. 
It will be coloured by feelings of success 
and failure, over-stimulation, boredom, 
inequality of labor, by illness or epi¬ 
demic. It will most certainly show the 
effects of adjusting to a new group of 
campers when one group leaves and 
another arrives at camp. And so must 
the director’s awareness of the group 
change. 

And how does one achieve this 
awareness? By the use of one’s God- 
given senses. For we directors learn in 
the same way that everyone else learns, 
by using our eyes and ears, our powers 
of comprehension and reasoning. One 
can quietly join a group and in a very 
few moments assess the following: — 
who is present? and more important, 
who is absent? Is this an interested, 
contented group completely engrossed 
in something constructive? Or do a 
few persons appear bored, discontented, 
angry, friendless, or excessively boister¬ 
ous? Is there order or disorder in 
equipment, organization and instruc¬ 
tions given to campers or fellow staff 
members? Are we greeted as a wel¬ 
come friend or as a signal for sudden 
silence or frantic activity? Is our 
arrival heralded by “Psst here he 
comes!” or by “Oh good, here comes 
the director!”. Snatches of conversa¬ 
tion float about on the air—the pitch, 
the intonation, if not the words them¬ 
selves register themselves with us; so do 
facial expressions. All these things we 
can learn without opening our mouths 
or a learned book on the subject. 

Every camp director knows the truth 
of that very familiar statement “a camp 
is only as good as its counsellors”. No 
amount of stupendous equipment can 


offset the effects of inept leadership. 
No camp director, no matter how 
talented and energetic, can provide all 
the leadership a camp demands. So, 
here we are—this is our counsellor staff 
and this year, as every year, we are 
striving toward perfection. How can 
we so lead and support these counsel¬ 
lors that they too can strive for per¬ 
fection in the execution of their jobs? 

First — this group must be made 
aware of what its job is as a total staff . 
In other words the individual must 
know that his contribution is important 
to the whole. “We as a staff hope to 
achieve these things: 

1. A camp which is truly for the 
camper. 

2. Such co-ordination and co-opera¬ 
tion that no aspect of our total opera¬ 
tion will be weak at any time. 

3. Such understanding of the im¬ 
portant contribution camping has to 
make that we are heartily in accord 
with its philosophies, aims, objectives, 
and ideals. 

4. Awareness of what we as a group 
are accomplishing and how we are 
accomplishing it. 

5. A whole-hearted desire to put self 
aside and work toward a worthwhile 
goal regardless of minor distractions or 
possible conflicting personalities.” 

In other words these individuals must 
be made aware of the fact that. they 
are members of a group—that there 
is power in a genuine group spirit; that 
in working together toward a common 
goal there are strength and influence 
which far outweigh that of any 
individual. 

How can this be brought into being? 

t 


Toronto, Canada, June 1963 


133 



First. By gathering together as a 
total staff group with regularity, free 
from distractions for the time being, 
and in a suitable environment. Size of 
space, comfort, light, etc. all enter into 
this. 

Secondly. By thinking together on 
such broad subjects as—why are we 
here at this camp? What do we hope 
to achieve for every child? What ex¬ 
periences do we hope every child will 
have at camp? What can we do about 
juvenile delinquency? 

Third. By problem-solving as a group 
in the area of small specific problems. 
First—what problems do we have in 
camp? How can we see that everyone 
is quiet after taps? How can we keep 
the camp tidy? How shall we get the 
trunks packed and luggage organized 
for shipment home? What can we do 
about the weather? Some of these 
things may seem a waste of time; any 
experienced camp director or pro¬ 
gramme organizer could outline it more 
efficiently in half the time and tell 
everyone else how to get it done. But, 
the value lies in the experience we are 
having as a group. We as a group can 
solve our problems. We form the habit 
of thinking of ourselves as we. We 
carry out the decisions that we have 
made with an entirely different spirit 
from the way we carry out crisply given 
instructions from a superior. Now I 
am not suggesting that every single item 
of the camp operation be a subject for 
debate. What I am suggesting is that 
enough of this group thinking be done 
that the group forms the habit of 
making and abiding by group decisions. 
May I also hasten to state that I am 
not suggesting that the counsellor 
group be involved in formulation or 
change of fundamental camp policies 
unless the director wishes this. 

Most groups are not ready for big 
things first—they should then start with 


little problems and work up to the 
larger and more profound ones. Earlier 
you may have noticed that the total 
staff was involved in this group think¬ 
ing. Senior staff members or counsellors 
of many years’ experience should not be 
excused on plea of more important 
duties or of having been through this 
many times before. Through contact 
with the maturer thinking the young 
person gains wisdom and stature in 
thought, judgment and attitude. Senior 
staff must, like the director, appreciate 
their own role in this group-unification 
process. Never must one become intol¬ 
erant of the ideas of the younger staff 
members. They have a right to a 
hearing. Very frequently, since they 
arc closer to the campers in age and 
feeling, they have the solution to a 
problem right within their recent ex¬ 
perience. Senior staff find here an 
opportunity to learn the temper of the 
group and realize the areas in which 
they can be of greatest help. When 
you overhear a counsellor saying “this 
is the way we are going to do it— 
we’ve talked it over and we have 
decided upon this plan”, then you know 
that here is a counsellor who is identi¬ 
fying himself with his group. 

Fourthly, let us consider working to¬ 
gether, as a tool in this group-awareness 
business. It is wise to have, very early 
in the season, some project which the 
entire staff' conceives, plans and exe¬ 
cutes — something completely apart 
from the regular evcrybody-in-his-job 
camp routine. This can be something 
as essential as developing a smooth 
flawless plan for meeting all the 
campers, seeing them through the un¬ 
packing, sight-seeing, letter-home, first 
meal, entertainment, and off-to-bed 
routines of the first day of camp. It 
can be a counsellors’ show for the 
entertainment of the campers, or a 
fabulous all-day enterprise for the first 

turn to page 156 


134 


Canadian Camping 


Sermons 

Mnber Qftje g>un 

A Suggested List o£ Service Material 

by Margaret Govan, 

Camp Onawa 

Your editorial committee has been 
attempting to collect resource material 
for worship. The following is - a list. 
Very little, if any, can be used by you 
as a prepared package deal. You will 
have to read, select, combine and use 
for your own campers. 

THE BIBLE 

THE HYMN AND PRAYER BOOKS 
of the various churches. 

THE CANADIAN YOUTH 
HYMNAL. 

SERVICES FOR THE OPEN by 
Matton and Bragdon. (out of print) 

The Daily Vacation Bible Schools 
material (prepared annually) is usu¬ 
ally very helpful. 

The Boys’ clubs have a Book of 
Devotions. 

The Boy Scouts have their own pam¬ 
phlet: MEETING THE RELIG¬ 
IOUS NEEDS OF SCOUTS IN 
CAMP. They also have prepared 
and mimeographed three series of 
interdenominational sermons. 

The Girl Guides have a background 
book: PRAYER AND WORSHIP 
THROUGH GUIDING. Also there 
are Prayers and Prayer Cafrds for 
Catholics, Jews and Protestants. 

Clarice Bowmans books: WORSHIP 
WAYS FOR CAMP and RESOUR¬ 
CES FOR WORSHIP are excellent. 
HOW TO PLAN INFORMAL 
WORSHIP by Winnifred Wygal is 
another background book. 

turn to page 153 


A distinguished American camp 
director and author of books on 
Camping sends us this review — 

THE CAMP COUNSELOR’S 
BOOK is a welcome addition to the 
growing library of camp leadership 
books. Directed to the new camp coun¬ 
sellor, it fills a real need. This reviewer 
is delighted to know of this volume, 
designed to replace the out-of-print 
CHARTING THE COUNSELOR’S 
COURSE which she still uses in camp 
training. Several Canadian camp 
leaders have collaborated to fill the 
book with practical advice, and easily- 
read help for the inexperienced leaders 
of cabin or tent groups. 

Here is a book for the individual to 
read and enjoy; it will also be a useful 
reference in counsellor training courses 
in colleges or in pre-camp training 
sessions. 

Help is given on knowing the 
campers in one’s cabin or tent group, 
on tricks-up-one’s-sleeve for activities 
for small groups or all camp groups; 
what to do on rainy days, games for 
quiet periods, festivals and special days 
all are suggested. The chapters on 
“Your Campers and the Natural 
World” and “Assisting with an Out- 
trip” are especially good. 

Chapters directed to the counsellor as 
an emerging person in a professional 
world are well presented, especially 
“You Will Grow, Too” and “Extending 
Your Horizons”. 

Catherine T. Hammett 

THE CAMP COUNSELOR’S 
BOOK edited by Mary L. Northway 
and Barry G. Lowes; Longmans Canada 
Limited, 1963. 


Toronto , Canada , June 1963 


135 



Mow To Help The 

new cA/neen 

by Lucille Irvine 


Most people feel delighted at the 
idea of getting away from home on a 
holiday. But often, when the time 
arrives for them to go, they begin to 
feel jittery . . . “For two cents, I’d 
stay home!” . . . Sometimes this feeling 
is so strong, they develop physical 
symptoms serious enough to postpone 
the now feared hour of departure. 

This sudden change of attitude 
comes from what is popularly known as 
homesickness. Today, psychology has 
a new name for it. We call it separa¬ 
tion anxiety, and we know that its roots 
go very deep. The people it hits hard¬ 
est are the young, and early attacks 
are very painful. All youngsters who 
go to camp for the first time suffer 
from it. And this is true, no matter 
how eagerly they have been looking 
forward to the experience. 

In order to understand how separa¬ 
tion anxiety operates, we have to go 
back to the very beginning of life. The 
main trouble with being human is that 
life begins too soon. No other living 
thing comes into the world so un¬ 
finished and so helpless as the human 
child. For years he is utterly dependent 
on others—if someone does not bring 
him food and give him some loving 
attention, he dies. 

When, as often happens with even 
the most cherished baby, he has to 
wait longer than he feels he can bear 
for a meal or a little comforting, his 


terror is devastating. For his organism 
“knows” that unless it gets what it 
needs, it will stop functioning. 

During these early completely de¬ 
pendent years, we all learn that as 
long as we are near mother we are 4 
safe; and home, where we have lived 
together, becomes a safety zone. 

The memories of this childhood 
dependency, along with the intense 
emotions that accompanied it, stay with 
us all our life. We are seldom con¬ 
scious of them, but they are all stored 
up on a kind of tape-recording in the 
brain. In later life, whenever we have 
to live through something which 
resembles an experience from the past, 
the record of the event, along with 
the emotions associated with it, is re¬ 
activated. It is from the stored mem¬ 
ories of these early helpless years that 
homesickness or separation anxiety 
comes. 

Thus the child who has looked for¬ 
ward happily to going to camp finds, 
when the time comes to leave home, 
that he is flooded with a return of 
ancient fears: Who will feed me? Who 
will look after me? Who will keep me 
alive? These questions will not reach 
the level of awareness but their feeling- 
tone will be experienced in all its 
original intensity. 

The fear that separation is equivalent 
to death crops up too in childhood 
whenever some loved member of the 


136 


Canadian Camping 



family goes away. It is not unusual 
for a parent who has gone off on a 
holiday to be welcomed back, not with 
shouts of joy, but with sobs of relief 
and an incredulous “Oh, you came 
back!” We find traces of this early 
fear in our daily speech. We say, “he 
has gone” of someone who has just 
died; and poets write of the “last jour¬ 
ney”. Language of this kind is no 
accident; it expresses early convictions 
that are still alive deep within us. And 
the new camper brings all these fears 
from the old irrational level to camp 
with him. 

The new camper also suffers from 
a number of more realistic anxieties. 
Sometimes he feels that his being sent 
to camp is a rejection; and he may be 
quite right. He may have heard his 
mother say, “Pll be so glad when I 
can get him off my hands!” Even if 
this has not been said, he may suspect 
that she feels it because he has been 
“bad”. For all children carry a heavy 
load of guilt since they find it hard to 
differentiate between what they have 
merely thought and what they have 
actually done. 

Then many new campers are afraid 
that they will not be able to measure 
up. They are afraid that they may not 
be able to be good sports; that they 
won’t be as strong as the other young¬ 
sters; or that the others won’t like 
them. 

The counsellor who knows that all 
new campers have these fears—and 
many others—will realize that he has a 
lot of anxious youngsters on his hands 
and that for a day or two, they will 
need a little special help. 

The most helpful thing he can do 
is to be aware of their difficulties and 
accept them as natural and inevitable. 
His own attitude will then be one of 
understanding and s y m p a t hy, of 


warmth and respect for the young 
people who are doing their best under 
conditions of strain. 

In other words, the counsellor’s feel¬ 
ings will be supportive and mature and 
the child will feel this support. Know¬ 
ing that the counsellor will understand, 
the child will be able to open up and 
talk about his difficulties. He will 
probably tell you that he is afraid and 
would like to go home. If you can 
“feel with” him and tell him quietly 
that most campers feel like that at first 
but that they usuaually get over it 
soon, you can help him tremendously. 
For you have accepted his feelings and 
given him the assurance that he is not 
“different”—that he shares his prob¬ 
lems with the other children and is not 
a solitary weakling. 

During the difficult days of home¬ 
sickness, you can also help the new 
camper by spending some time alone 
with him. It need not be a long 
session; a few minutes at a time are 
often enough. But during these minutes 
you should give the child your complete 
and concentrated interest and attention 
so that he can feel that here, right at 
hand, is someone who really cares 
about him. 

Bedtime is always a critical hour for 
the new camper and you can give him 
both comfort and strength and if you 
will act like a good parent and give 
him some affectionate babying and 
encouragement. 

So far we have been talking about 
the new camper and his problems. 
What about you? You’re human. 
You’ve got problems too. Being a 
counsellor is very strenuous—the hours 
are long and the work makes great 
emotional as well as physical and men¬ 
tal demands. The children won’t 

turn to page 145 


Toronto, Canada, June 1963 


137 



CAMPING and CAMPGROUNDS 

in the National Parks 

by S. L. Roberts , 

National Parks Branch 
Government of Canada 


A wide variety of camping experience 
is offered by the National Parks of 
Canada. Last season one of every 
ten National Park visitors was a 
camper, who chose one or more of the 
almost 6,500 tent or trailer sites as a 
base for his outdoors recreation. 

Camping in the 17 National Parks 
has been increasing greatly during the 
past five years. Since 1959, the number 
of campers has doubled so that each 
campsite, whether occupied by a 
trailer or tent, is now used by about 
a hundred campers during the 92-day 
camping season. 

Statistically, the National Parks 
campgrounds are receiving absolute use 
now and this can be easily verified by 
personal observation of the over¬ 
crowded conditions that are prevalent 
in the popular fully-serviced camp¬ 
grounds. 

To meet the soaring public demand 
for camping space, the National Parks 
Branch foresees that the number of 
campsites in the parks will have 
doubled, at least, by 1967. Even this 
projected programme will not provide 
entirely for the needs of Canadians 
and Americans who want to camp in 
a park environment. Expansion of pro¬ 
vincial government and privately-oper¬ 
ated campgrounds, particularly within 
a 200-mile radius of the concentrated 


urban regions of population from which 
most campers originate, will be essential 
as well. 

With public campgrounds being 
hard-pressed to accommodate indivi¬ 
dual campers, group camping organi¬ 
zations may be alarmed that the 
enjoyment of the National Parks by 
their members may be restricted. Cer¬ 
tainly this is not the case. For the youth 
of Canada, the National Parks provide 
remarkable opportunities for observing 
nature, for such outdoor recreation as 
hiking, riding, swimming, and over¬ 
night camping, and for gaining an in¬ 
telligent appreciation of how important 
it is to preserve some outstanding areas 
in their natural state as living records 
of how their country was in the past. 

The only limitation that applies to 
group camping organizations in the 
National Parks is permanent occupa¬ 
tion of publicly-owned land for a 
summer camp, and the entailed con¬ 
struction of cookhouses, mess halls, and 
other shelter buildings. Obviously, per¬ 
manent camps by children’s and youth 
organizations would deprive the public 
as a whole of free access to and use 
of some vital areas of the National 
Parks. 

Group camping organizations plan¬ 
ning excursions or short-term expeditions 
to the National Parks can build their 


138 


Canadian Camping 



programme around a variety of 
activities. 

For camping there are three types 
of campgrounds. Serviced campgrounds 
fully equipped with kitchen shelters 
and stoves, communal fireplaces, flush 
toilets, electrical outlets for trailers, 
washrooms with hot and cold running 
water and sometimes coin-operated 
washing machines, and often even com¬ 
munity buildings for shelter during un¬ 
pleasant weather, are in all the parks 
except Glacier. These are the only 
campgrounds for which a rate is 
charged and it is a modest 50 cents a 
day or $2.00 a week per site. 

Banff National Park, the most heavily 
visited of the parks, has four serviced 
campgrounds, of which the largest. 
Tunnel Mountain, has a capacity of 600 
tents and 125 trailers. All the other 
parks have at least one, accommodating 
between 75 and 500 tents. 

The second type of National Park 
campground—and the type that will 
continue to be the most common—is 
the semi-serviced. In these, additional 
conveniences are kept to a minimum. 
However, there are piped water, kitchen 
shelters, toilets, fireplaces and picnic 
tables. 

The final group of campgrounds are 
designated as primitive. These are 
little more than small areas along the 
trails in parts of the National Parks 
that are accessible only by foot, canoe 
or horse. Equipped with a fireplace, 
a nearby source of water, a garbage 
pit and simple toilet, the primitive 
campground is designed for the camper 
who is content to rely on his own equip¬ 
ment and supplies for overnight 
camping. 

In all the campgrounds, no reser¬ 
vations are accepted for camping space 
and because campsites are taken up by 


the first party that arrives, there is no 
assurance that a group will obtain a 
number of campites close together in 
any particular campground. This poses 
some difficulty for group camping 
leaders who do not wish to lose control 
by having their group broken up into 
small, separated units. The best ap¬ 
proach here is to plan on using semi- 
serviced campgrounds where, though 
the demand for camping sites is still 
great, there is more opportunity to have 
the tents dispersed in a smaller area. 

In most of the Nationl Parks, special 
arrangements can be made with indi¬ 
vidual superintendents to camp for a 
short while in an area of the park that, 
although not a designated campground, 
can be used for temporary camps. Per¬ 
mits for camping and lighting fires can 
be obtained from the park wardens. 
Several National Parks, as, for example, 
Point Pelee Park in Ontario, have 
special areas reserved for group camp¬ 
ing and reservations are accepted from 
groups that wish to use these. Groups 
wishing reservations should write to 
the Superintendent of the park 
concerned. 

Groups that are self-sufficient for 
shelter, supplies and cooking facilities 
can tour wilderness areas of the 
National Parks with freedom. In the 
National Parks of Alberta and British 
Columbia, pack-trips are popular with 
youth groups, and base camps can be 
packed in for groups who wish to ex¬ 
plore the more remote back-country by 


turn to page 151 



Toronto , Canada , June 1963 


139 




New Regulations 

m m m ('Oil W I'll III if MAfO JtlliliVtS 

by Barry G. Lowes, 

Camp Timberlane 


In February, a number of camp directors were alarmed by a small, back-page 
article in the Toronto Telegram describing the new Dept, of Transport Regula¬ 
tions which would require “every vessel propelled solely by oars or paddles shall 
carry in the case of a vessel not over 18 feet in length, one bailer and one 
approved small vessel life jacket or approved life saving cushion for each person 
on board” 

Without any prior consultation with camping or boating people who would 
be directly affected, this amendment to the Canada Shipping Act, Small Vessel 
Regulations, was amended by an Order in Council in September 1962. Had the 
chance article not appeared in the Toronto Telegram, camping people would 
have been caught by surprise as they unwittingly broke the law this summer. 

The Ontario Camping Association and many of its members wrote im¬ 
mediately to protest this amendment. A public hearing was requested with the 
Minister of Transport, which was immediately granted. A brief was prepared 
and Barry Lowes, President of the Ontario Camping Association, and Kirk 
Wipper, Chairman of Canoeing Standards were delegated to present the brief 
at the meeting in Ottawa on April 5th. Mr. Jack Pearse and Mr. Gary Schofield 
of the Ottawa YMCA joined the delegation in Ottawa, together with Mrs. Holt 
representing the Canadian Girl Guides, and Mr. C. R. Blackstock of the Canadian 
Red Cross. Dr. Don Smith, President of the Canadian Camping Association flew 
in from Edmonton. 

In a long pre-meeting conference, the camping delegates discussed many 
questions and doubts about standards in camping and their implementation. At 
the meeting later convened by the Deputy Minister the following brief was 
presented: 

A brief in support of the request that an exception be made for. 
organized children’s camps concerning the carriage of life saving 
equipment in vessels propelled solely by oars or paddles . 

That there has been an explosion of public interest in all aspects of camping 
and outdoor living is attested to by the increasingly heavy use of park and water 
areas throughout Canada. 

The children who attend organized camps are being given unparalleled 
experiences in outdoor education and group living. The skills they learn and the 
attitudes they form towards outdoor living and the safe use of watercraft will 
be continued throughout their lives. 

The situation that exists in organized children’s camps with reference to the 
safe use of all watercraft is markedly different from that of other organizations 
or groups of individuals in the community. We are basically education organ¬ 
izations and should not be categorized with resorts. The Ontario Camping 


140 


Canadian Camping 


Association is teaching and has been teaching for over thirty years safety 
principles and skills to all campers and staff relating to the safe and proper use 
of all watercraft. For this reason we believe that organized camps should be 
exempted from these new regulations. To this end: 

1. No camper or staff member is permitted to use any watercraft until he 
has passed a basic swimming test proving his competence to handle himself 
in the water with strength and confidence. In some camps children who 
have not attained this level are permitted to go in a row boat, with their 
counsellor but MUST WEAR A LIFE JACKET. 

2. No camper or staff member is permitted to go on a canoe trip who has 
not passed additional tests in canoeing. (See the Standard Canoeing 
test and awards used by camps as APPENDIX A). 90% of time in 
canoes is during teaching classes. 

3. Even though qualified, no camper goes out in canoes, sailboats, rowboats 
or any watercraft without being supervised by a staff member. 

4. Every camper who goes on a canoe trip is under the supervision of 
trained staff members. 

5. All campers are trained in the safe handling of watercraft, learn respect 
for limitations and capabilities of the canoe including the simulation of 
emergency situations, wherein they must dump their canoes while clothed, 
right the canoe, climb into it, and paddle it to shore with or without 
paddles. They also learn to rescue one canoe with another canoe. In 
addition, while on canoe trips, a strict code of safety rules is followed; 
one of which is that all canoes stay close together, thus enabling them 
to assist one another in an emergency. 

6. These same safety drills and techniques are taught for the use of 
sailboats and other watercraft. 

7. For thirty-two years campers have been taught 

TO HANG ON TO THEIR CANOE and never swim for shore. 
Campers participate in demonstrations to prove that a canoe is their 
best life-preserver. We know that a canoe full of water will support 
seven people. Camping leaders believe that the new regulations will 
break down these thirty-two years of teaching and, in fact, could be 
hazardous if carried out. 

You cannot paddle all day while wearing a bulky life-jacket. Realistically, 
we know that trained campers will not wear them. Should a canoe dump, the 
cushion or jacket will spill out and the canoe will begin to drift. Now, does the 
camper swim to retrieve the cushion or does he hang on to the canoe as he has 
been drilled? The uncertainty could be fatal. 

Camping leaders are equally concerned that in time, if the regulations 
persist, children will come to depend upon the life-jacket as a crutch, lulling 
them into a false sense of security so that they no longer see the need for the 
close observance of safety rules in the use of water craft. We want and in fact 
promote a healthy respect for the hazards inherent in any boating situation. 

* 


Toronto, Canada, June 1963 


141 




Gamp directors have the legal responsibility for the safety and welfare of 
their campers. This is their paramount responsibility. They are in fact “in loco 
parentis* both morally and legally. If there were safer ways to discharge their 
responsibilities, camp directors would embrace them wholeheartedly. It is 
interesting to note that in those camps where waterskiing is an activity, all skiers 
are required to wear life jackets. In this instance, camp directors are ahead of 
existing legislation and community thinking. 

It should be noted also that organized children’s camps have an enviable 
record of safety, spanning 30 years, in the field of canoeing and boating. We 
believe that if all children and adults had the benefit of similar training in the 
safe use of watercraft given to campers, the toll of deaths by drowning would be 
minimal and the need for legislation would not exist. 

In the light of all these reasons set forth herein, it should be of direct concern 
to the Department when camp directors oppose these new regulations unequiv¬ 
ocally. If there was any doubt about our existing boat safety programme, we 
would have moved in this direction ourselves but we cannot state too strongly our 
opposition to this change in the existing legislation. While we understand fully 
the principle and the concern behind it and its value in some areas of the 
community, we submit that it is entirely unnecessary in the case of organized 
children s camps and would urge, therefore, that they be exempted from com¬ 
pliance with these regulations. 

Respectfully submitted for your consideration. 


APRIL 5, 1963. Barry G. Lowes , 

President, 

Ontario Camping Association. 

. . The National and Provincial Safety Associations, the large boating organ¬ 

izations, the R.C.M.P., the Harbour Police, and the Tourist Assoications were all 
in favour of the regulation. While they could agree after hearing our brief that 
organized camping was in a different category, they argued that no exceptions 
should be made. We answered their questions, apparently to the satisfaction 
of the Deputy Minister, for word has just been received from the Minister of 
Transport: 

“I have to advise you that the Board of Steamship Inspection has ruled, 
m the light of representations made at a meeting held on April 5th, that canoes 
and rowboats used in camps such as yours for the training of children shall be 
exempted from the requirement of this Regulation. 

I may also add that the application of this Regulation as a whole is now 
receiving the active consideration of the Department and in this respect you will, 
be advised further as soon as a decision has been reached. 

Yours Sincerely, 

Leon Balcer, 

Minister of Transport. 


142 


Canadian Camping 


There is no doubt that while we have won this round, heavy pressure from 
safety groups and boating associations will continue to be brought to bear on 
the Department of Transport. Within a year or two, at most, the camping 
associations will have to present a plan whereby the regulations can be enforced 
for the general public while still exempting organized camps. Otherwise we may 
find that public demand for such a regulation will override our special position. 

If any members have any ideas for such a plan, please write to us, no matter 
how wild it seems. From the seed of one idea a sound plan might grow! 


overseas students - - 


Potential Counsellors 

by C. S. Lennox, Director, 

Friendly Relations with 
Overseas Students . 


Universities have long been a major 
source of counsellors for summer camps 
in Canada, and this has undoubtedly 
been a mutual benefit arrangement for 
both students and camp directors—not 
to mention campers. Over the past 
fifteen or so years there has been a 
steadily increasing segment of the uni¬ 
versity student community which has 
been largely, though not entirely, over¬ 
looked in the camp counselling depart¬ 
ment. This, of course, is the overseas 
students, graduate and undergraduate, 
in our midst, and who are now making 
up such an important part, both in 
numbers and influence, of the univer¬ 
sity population, particularly in the larger 
centres. For instance at McGill there 
are nearly 1500, and at Toronto some 
950, from outside Canada. Not count¬ 
ing those from Great Britain or the 
U.S.A., there are well over 4000 people 
with student visas in Canada. This is 
nearly ten percent more that last year, 
which in turn was up about twelve 
percent from the year before. The 
West Indies contributes the largest 


number, followed by Hong Kong, India 
(with Pakistan and Ceylon) and Africa 
—just over 400 from the latter. 

So much for mere quantity. Some 
idea of the quality can be inferred from 
the fact that they are generally ‘selected* 
individuals both academically and in 
maturity of character. As a group, those 
who are in constant touch with them 
find, they are unusually interesting, 
personable and intelligent. It is a 
truism, which still holds, that a rela¬ 
tively high proportion of those here, 
from Africa and India, for instance, 
will certainly soon be among the leaders 
in Government and industry in their 
home countries. For the immediate 
reality however, here is a group of 
young people some of whom could 
make unique contributions to Canadian 
camping, and who at the same time 
would have the somewhat uncommon, 
for them, 'opportunity of intimate par¬ 
ticipation in a distinctive aspect of 
Canadian life. This could be of in¬ 
estimable value to them, an important 
addition to their education. The finan- 

♦ 


Toronto, Canada, June 1963 


143 



cial compensation is a small though not 
negligible consideration, and in fact 
this does eliminate some who must earn 
more in the summer than the two 
months at camp normally provides. 

Overseas students can provide a 
special interest to campers, and the 
limited experience so far bears this 
out. It takes little imagination to appre¬ 
ciate the effect on young minds, of 
living for a period with someone from 
a ‘strange, far-away place,” and of find¬ 
ing from actual experience the simil¬ 
arities, as well as the differences 
beween ourselves and them. Also, 
especially in the case of Africans for 
example, they are generally from large 
families and used to children, are ac¬ 
customed to an outdoor life, frequently 
have skills in nature crafts, folk-lore 
and music. The ideal person would fit 
into the regular camp programme, per¬ 
haps have purely assets, and at the 
same time bring a broadening glimpse 
of the world beyond our borders. A 
start has been made in this challenging 
field; it invites extensive expansion. 

In Canada there are two organiza¬ 
tions working to bring foreign students 
and Canadians together — Friendly 
Relations with Overseas Students, 
(FROS), and the African Students 
Foundation, both of which are nation¬ 
wide and have local counterparts or 
representatives at almost all universities. 
The A.S.F. last year sponsored 97 
undergraduates from Africa, and 
assumes a specific responsibility for 
their welfare, in practice reaching many 
other Africans studying here. Several 
universities now have an Overseas 
Student Adviser on the staff who can 
be of great help. For local advice, if 
in doubt, one should write: Mrs. E. 
Fowke, National Secretary, FROS, 22 
Willcocks St., Toronto 5, or Mrs. M. 
Birtch, African Students Foundation, 
85 Lombard St., for respective local 
representation. 


A Counselling Opportunity 
for 

Students from Jamaica 


Something extra will be added to 10 
Ontario camps this summer. Underway 
are arrangements to bring six young 
men and four young women from 
Jamaica to spend the summer working 
in Ontario camps. 

It all started when one young Jam¬ 
aican spent last summer at camp 
Mazinaw. Things worked out so well 
that the obvious questions “why not 
invite more counsellors?” was asked. 
It was decided to expand the project 
to ten for the summer of 1963. 

Liason was established with Mr. Guy 
Arnold of the Canadian Voluntary 
Commonwealth Service, and organiza¬ 
tion somewhat parallel to the American 
Peace Corps. Under their auspices, 
young Canadians are recruited and sent 
throughout the Commonwealth to serve 
wherever and however needed. This 
Canadian Camping project now makes 
provision for Commonwealth youth to 
train in Canada. 

The 10 Jamaicans who will be 
coming to Canada this summer range 
in age from 18-25. Carefully screened 
for background, ability and leadership 
potential by a committee of the Stand¬ 
ing Conference of Youth Organizations 
in Jamaica, the young people seem to 
be of high calibre and should add a 
great deal to the life and programme 
of their host camp. 

These Jamaican counsellors will 
arrive in Canada by air about June 
22nd, at which time they will be met 
by a Canadian host who will show them 


144 


Canadian Camping 



about Toronto, Niagara Falls and the 
surrounding country. On or about June 
25th the host camp will take their guest 
counsellors to the camp for a pre-camp 
orientation before the thundering horde 
descends on them. 

All of us are most optimistic and 
excited about the wonderful oppor¬ 
tunity afforded us of having these 
young people in our camps. This ex¬ 
perience should add greatly to our 
understanding of other people and 
other ways and give our guests a rich 
opportunity to become familiar with 
possibilities of Canadian camping. 

There is an old Chinese saying that 
if you want to move a mountain you 
begin by carrying away one stone at a 
time. It seems to me that we, in 
Canadian camping, can begin to move 
the mountain of ignorance, misunder¬ 
standing and prejudice that exists in 
the world, by first carrying away these 
ten stones. The value to us and to our 
campers will be out of all proportion to 
the small effort we will be putting 
forth. 

In the fall we will bring to you a full 
report of the summer’s experience. 


from page 137 

always respond well, even to your best 
efforts. They can be brats. And it is 
normal for you to be fed up with them 
sometimes and to get angry. 

If you can admit these feelings to 
yourself and accept them as natural, 
you’ll be much more relaxed and 
efficient than if you try to be perfect. 
With a realistic goal, you’ll do your 
work better and enjoy it more. The 
campers will pick up your emotional 
tone and get more fun out of every¬ 
thing too. For we teach most by what 
we are—very little by what we say. 


ADDYEARSTOTHE 
LIFE OF 


CANVAS •ROPE 
FIBRE FABRICS 
WITH 



Guards against 


MILDEW • FUNGI 
MOISTURE • ROT 
DISCOLOURATION 


Quality Guaranteed by 

Ie dage's 

LIMITED 

404 KIPLING AVE. S., TORONTO 18, ONT. 


SAINT JOHN • MONTREAL • WINNIPEG • VANCOUVER 

Available at Outfitters Across Canada 
*TM 6307 


Toronto, Canada, June 1963 


145 



com pi ere 

GENERAL 

HANDICRAFT 

SUPPLIES 

FOR 

SUMMER 

CAMPS 


Tor Handicraft it's Jjewiscraft'\ 


50th Anniversary 
of an 

All-Canadian Company 
(1913-1963) 

• • • 

PLEASE COME IN AND SEE OUR 
CAMP DISPLAY ... IT WILL 
INTEREST YOU! 

EM. 3-5206 

284 KING ST. WEST 
TORONTO 2B, ONTARIO 


KAYAKS 

and 

KAMPING 


by Kirk Wipper 
Camp Kandalore 


Early transportation along Canadian 
waterways is closely linked with the 
canoe. To this day it has survived in 
modified form to offer a new and 
unique kind of adventure for those who 
have learned of peace and inspiration 
in the out of doors. At the same time 
it is interesting to note that its cousin 
of the Canadian north, namely, the 
Kayak, has remained somewhat obscure 
in North America. Certainly, Euro¬ 
peans know the Kayak well. Far better, 
in fact, than our familiar Canoe. Per¬ 
haps it is timely to consider the Kayak 
and its merits. It is, after all, con¬ 
sistent with any reasons we might set 
forth for including canoeing in our 
camp programme with a few minor 
exceptions. On the other hand, the 
Kayak does offer some experiences not 
afforded by the Canoe. 

The real purpose of this discussion is 
to consider the Kayak and its probable 
place in Canadian camping. Articles 
have been written on the use of this 
craft and many of its virtues have been 
extolled. Kayak enthusiasts hasten to 
point out for example that it was not 


146 


Canadian Camping 







the Canadian canoe which crossed the 
mighty Atlantic, but rather the Kayak 
skilfully manned by Dr. Lindeman 
(the author does not recommend this 
as an idea for a canoe trip). 

Like the Canoe, the Kayak has 
undergone great change in mode of 
construction. The Eskimo have to hunt, 
keep dry and survive wind and wave 
miles off shore. For this purpose his 
craft of sealskin and bone was par¬ 
ticularly suited. Modern voyageurs are 
building Kayaks from a great variety of 
materials for two, three or four people. 
They are also, as the Canoe, for new 
and different objectives. Generally it 
is the use of a Kayak which has had 
the greatest influence on design, shape 
and material. Five different types now 
exist; namely, touring, sailing, sports, 
racing and slaloming. 

The first three, touring, sailing and 
sports, have a high degree of stability 
and are generally of very durable con¬ 
struction. Racing Kayaks incorporate 
minimal water resistance, light weight 
and only enough water displacement to 
support its passengers. The hull of the 
racer is essentially a slightly rounded 
U, narrow in beam and sleek in appear¬ 
ance. The slalom Kayak is designed 
for speed as well as manoeuvreability. 
To realize these purposes the craft is 
shorter in length, less in draft and with¬ 
out a keel. This permits the paddler 
to lean as he negotiates gates or other 
obstacles. 

Of the designs discussed the sports- 
touring model is the most stable. With 
the hull shaped half oval admidship, 
and with some degree of flatness at the 
bottom, it is particularly desirable for 
the novice or inexperienced. It is this 
model that would appeal to campers. 

All Kayaks provide the great thrill of 
speed. It can be expected that a single 


Kayak paddler will pass a doubles 
canoe and apparently without extra¬ 
ordinary effort. The comfortable seat¬ 
ing and double bladed paddle do help 
to propel the craft quickly and easily. 

Essentially the Kayak is guided to 
right or left by increasing pressure on 
the stroke of one arm. This, of course, 
is a much different proposition than 
the principles of canoe paddling. It is 
this, coupled with the difference in 
body position, which is really that of 
ballast below the water level, that 
makes Kayaking a rather unique ex¬ 
perience on the water. 

To compare the value of Kayaks 
with Canoes in tripping is not reason¬ 
able. The Kayak is simply not so useful 
as a canoe would be for out-trips, as we 
usually think of them. It is not readily 
portaged along with equipment and 
packs. On the other hand, it can be 
thrilling in white water in the hands 
of an experienced paddler. This is not 
to say that tripping in a Kayak is 
impossible! There certainly are routes 
to which the Kayak can very success¬ 
fully be applied. In this regard, some 
experimentation must be carried out in 
packing and carrying methods for 
Kayak travel. No doubt some may 
consider, the Kayak a rather unsafe 
craft. However, this is not the case 
presuming that the usual prerequisites 
in swimming and in the use of the 
craft are met. The very low centre 
of gravity of the paddler, coupled with 
the balanced paddle which is used on 
both sides with equal dexterity renders 
the craft very stable indeed. The feel¬ 
ing of stability is quickly realized even 
on the first outing. 

The author was introduced to the 
Kayak for camping by trying one. 
Certainly this is the real test. 

— • 


Toronto, Canada , June 1963 


147 




CONSERVATION 
AND CANOE TRIPPING 


by Alan Helmsley, 

Out. Dept, of Lands and Forests 


regarded for a long time as crops and 
fish and wildlife. This ability of the 
land to maintain certain quantities of 
crops, livestock, forests, and wildlife 
and of the water to maintain certain 
quantities of fish is referred to as carry¬ 
ing capacity. 


Each year, as more canoe trippers 
attempt to get away from it all, the 
garbage piles get higher and higher, 
and tiie campsites become more mutil¬ 
ated. This paper is based upon ex¬ 
periences gained in the larger provincial 
parks, such as Algonquin and Quetico, 
but the situation is the same in most 
of the canoe country. 

In the canoe trip one finds a link 
with the past identified with the 
Indian, explorer, trapper, trader and 
voyageur, not to mention solitude, 
peace, quiet, contentment, good fishing 
and a sense of personal achievement. 
All of this could be described as wilder¬ 
ness recreation, dependent upon land 
and water in a fairly natural state in 
which man is permitted to travel by 
primitive means, say by canoe, by foot 
or, in some cases, by horseback. 

Any renewable harvest of the land 
may be referred to as a crop. Agri- 
cultual produce and livestock have been 


In recent years, another crop has 
grown in prominence. This crop 
depends upon the lands and waters 
mixed with varying amounts of space, 
scenery, trees, vistas, fields, marshes, 
shorelines, beaches, fish for the catch¬ 
ing and animals for the seeing. It 
requires the freedom to enjoy these 
resources by camping, picnicking, bath¬ 
ing, boating, hiking, driving, loafing 
and simply being among these natural 
assets. Outdoor recreation, as a crop, 
depends upon what the land can pro¬ 
duce and it is certainly harvested by an 
annually increasing army of 
vacationists. 

As with any crop, the land has 
limitations or a definite carrying cap¬ 
acity for recreation. Any park will 
support just so many campgrounds; a 
campground will support just so many 
campsites; a parking area, so many 
ately accessible by road. This reserves 
cars; a beach, so many bathers, a picnic 
in comparatively recent time, forests. 


148 


Canadian Camping 




fish and wildlife have been looked upon 
as crops of the land. They can be 
grown, managed, harvested and re¬ 
newed upon a regular basis. Just as 
the climate, the soil and its tertility 
are governing factors in the kinds oi 
quantities of agricultural produce and 
livestock, so are these factors of similar 
limitation in the production of forests, 
area, so many picnic tables; and even 
a footpath, so many walkers. There 
may always be room for one more, but 
eventually a situation of intolerance is 
reached when crowding destroys the 
purpose ol outdoor recreation and the 
parK environment deteriorates from 
over-use. 

The carrying capacity of land for 
recreation varies with the recreational 
activity. A popular sand beach, attrac¬ 
tive to thousands of visitors on a week¬ 
end, could be considered to have a high 
carrying capacity. The beach is not 
destroyed by pounding feet and splash¬ 
ing water. Similarily, an organized 
picnic area with lots of tables, fire¬ 
places, garbage containers and, per¬ 
haps, shelters, would have a high carry¬ 
ing capacity for picnickers. In a 
developed campground, planned for a 
number of drive-in campsites, equipped 
with tables and fire places, and serviced 
with tested drinking water, garbage 
collection and sanitary facilities, the 
carrying capacity is high. The number 
of people involved require this planning 
and development to provide a high 
carrying capacity. 

In contrast, there are some recreational 
activities for which the land has com¬ 
paratively low carrying capacity. One 
of these is wilderness recreation which, 
because many people indulge in it, is 
based not upon true wilderness, but 
upon reasonably natural surroundings, 
encompassing large areas from which 
mechanical means of travel are elimin¬ 
ated and in which are encouraged 
primitive means of travel, such as by 
canoe, by horse, or by foot. The re¬ 


quirements for such land are solitude, 
quiet, and environment for inspirational 
enjoyment and the sense of personal 
achievement. 

Such environments are found in our 
larger provincial parks. Algonquin, 
Quetico, Lake Superior and Sibley, and 
it is imperative that the interiors of 
these parks be reserved for this particu¬ 
lar recreation form. 

Algonquin and Quetico have long 
been known for their canoe-tripping 
possibilities. Each year, many thousands 
of trippers paddle and portage their 
ways over the routes and it is readily 
seen that there is a problem in main¬ 
taining quality wilderness recreation for 
quantities of people. 

To maintain some semblance of the 
wild in these park hinterlands, public 
roads are limited to the boundary zones 
and development areas on the edges of 
the canoe country. Although 
logging access roads are necessary for 
the removal of timber under approved 
management plan, these roads are not 
open to the public. Another control, 
which is very important, in the pro¬ 
tection of the wilderness atmosphere 
is the restriction of aircraft entry to 
only certain lakes on the edges of the 
parks. Recently, controls have been 
exerted to restrict the leaving of boats 
on interior waters. In past years, this 
practice has permitted comparatively 
easy access to the interior by fishermen 
who appreciated the wilderness atmos¬ 
phere and fishing, but were unable to, 
or did not want to, participate in the 
full experience of primitive travel. It 
must be stressed that the increasing 
numbers of people who were taking 
advantage of these cached boats, were 
slowly contributing to the destruction 
of the wilderness atmosphere they 
wished to enjoy. Now, boats may be 
left at certain lakes without jeopard¬ 
izing the interior lakes. 

♦ 


Toronto, Canada, June 1963 


149 



Finally, the outboard motor and 
power boat, although they constituted 
a threat to primitive wilderness recrea¬ 
tion, are, by their sizes and weights, 
usually limited to the waters immedi- 
the interior waters for smaller craft, in 
keeping with wilderness recreation. 

One may say that not enough people 
can use the larger parks. Actually, the 
numbers of canoe-trippers in Algonquin 
and Quetico Provincial Parks have 
more than doubled in the past three 
years to at least 58,000. This is a sub¬ 
stantial figure for a recreational use on 
land with a low carrying capacity for 
such recreational activity. It must be 
protected from ease of access in order 
that canoe-tripping and the full ex¬ 
perience of primitive travel may sur¬ 
vive as a part of the Ontario scene. 

Let us now consider the canoe- 
tripper, the route and the campsite. It 
is apparent that the land cannot sup¬ 
port vast numbers of trippers without 
showing the signs of intense use and 
misuse. A campsite, for example, can¬ 
not provide numerous tent poles and 
masses of boughs for beds and shelters 
without becoming desolate. Add to this 
a litter of paper wrappings, aluminum 
foil, pieces of rope dangling from rusty 
nails in trees, a discarded sock and a 
few mutilated trees against a back¬ 
ground of fly-infested tin cans, garbage, 
unplanned latrines, and the desolation 
is complete. 

It can be appreciated that the ex¬ 
penditure of time, man-hours and 
funds can be considerable if the Prov¬ 
ince is to be held responsible for canal 
route maintenance. Actually, the clean¬ 
liness of the route and the campsites is 
the responsibility of the wilderness 
user and reflects the calibre of the 
tripper. Modern equipment, such as 
light-weight tents and air mattresses, 
has done much to deter the des¬ 
truction of the canoe country by old- 
fashioned “camper craft” projects. We 


have seen live trees destroyed to make 
all sorts of towel racks, cooking “gim¬ 
micks”, shelters, useless tables and even 
a bridge on dry land to serve only as 
a project. We have seen live trees 
felled for “something to do” and trees 
used as targets for axe-throwing con¬ 
tests. Let us recognize that the natural 
environment will no longer support 
pioneer methods used by large numbers 
of people and that we must change our 
thinking and objectives. Let us con¬ 
sider the canoe trip as an experience 
of appreciation without destroying the 
very thing which makes the trip worth¬ 
while. Let us emphasize less the muscle 
and marathon aspects of the trip and 
stress the real values of understanding, 
appreciating and enjoying. 

All trippers are responsible and the 
observance of the following rules is 
necessary for the maintenance of the 
recreational values of the canoe 
country: 

1. A folding spade, or similar digging 
tool is essential for digging garbage 
pits, latrines and trenching your 
tent. 

2. Dig garbage pits and latrines back 
in the woods away from the actual 
campsites and away from water. 

3. Cut both ends from cans and 
burn all garbage (cans, peels, 
papers, left-overs) to sterilize or to 
reduce to ashes. 

4. Flatten all cans, wash all glass 
containers and bury these and 
burned residue when cold. 

5. In rocky terrain where the digging 
of a garbage pit is impossible, 
sink glass containers and burned 
cans in a deep part of the lake. 

6. Build the fire on a rock or bare 
mineral soil away from humus, old 
logs, roots and near water. Keep 
the fire small and make certain it 
is dead out before you leave. Use 
lots of water and stir the wet coals 
with a stick. 


150 


Canadian Camping 



7. Leave tent poles standing against 
a tree so that the next camper 
will find them. 

8. Leave some sheltered dry firewood 
for the next camper. 

9. Privacy is essential. Do not en¬ 
croach upon an occupied site, even 
when invited out of the generosity 
of the occupant. 

10. Before leaving, inspect the camp¬ 
site for forgotten equipment, and 
ask yourself if you would like to 
be the next one to use the site. 


from page 1 39 

foot. In Saskatchewan’s Prince Albert 
National Park, canoe trips can be made. 
The waters of Georgian Bay, around 
Georgian Bay Islands National Park, 
are also excellent for canoe trips of 
several days duration. However, in 
most parks, travel by horse or on 
foot is the only way to find places 
where the beauty of forests and moun¬ 
tains can be enjoyed in comparative 
solitude. 

Day and overnight outings in the 
National Parks are easily arranged for 
youth groups. There are numerous 
picnic areas along the roads where 
meals can be prepared. Camping is 
not permitted in picnic areas but there 
are tables, fireplaces and drinking water 
provided. There is always free firewood 
at all campgrounds and picnic areas. 

The National Parks Service stresses 
that all visitors who intend to camp 
overnight along trails or in remote 
areas register with the parks wardens. 
Counsellors taking groups into the 
National Parks should be familiar with 
the park regulations and competent to 
to deal with all situations that may 



complete trail 
feeding 

with minimum weight 
minimum cube 
reasonable prices 


ATTN.: — DIRECTORS AND TRIP COUNSELLORS 

Campers everywhere find 
CHUCK WAGON FOODS 

A-OK! 

For week-end camping, Canoe pro¬ 
grams, Back - packing. Mountain 
climbing, Cave exploring, Just 
plain "Over-nights" 

Successfully used by many Camps as 
individual items or full prepackaged 
meals. 

Write for Free Catalog 

Bolton Farm (Canada) Ltd. 

43 VICTORIA STREET 

TORONTO 1, ONTARIO 
EMpirc 6-4810 


SPECIALISTS 

in 

Camp Medical Supplies 

and 

First Aid Kits 


A convenient Special Pre-Written 
Order Form for requisitioning your 
camp medical supplies is FREE on 
request. 

Write or Phone . , . 

a ~ Ingram & Bell 

J LIMITED 


Montreal 

Calgary 


TORONTO 

Winnipeg 

Vancouver 


Toronto, Canada, June 1963 


151 




£ing,et ’4 

MINIT-MASHED 
POTATO FLAKES 

Make delicious mashed potatoes that 
look and taste like potatoes should. 
Perfect for camp dining room, camp- 
outs and canoe trips. 

8 - 30oz. bags per case serves over 
500 campers. 

Other products by Singer's 

FROZEN FRENCH FRIES, 

POTATO PUFFS, ONION RINGS 
and FRYING SHORTENING 

For more information please write 
or phone:-— 

SINGER'S FOOD PRODUCTS LTD. 
63 Mack Ave. 

Scarborough, Ont. OX. 8-5671 


— FREE — 

GIANT HOBBY-CRAFT 

HANDBOOK 

CATALOGUE 

listing basic instructions and supplies 
for over 30 crafts including leather- 
craft, fried marblecraft, flowercraft, 
polypom craft, paint by number, art 
supplies, beadcraft, metal tooling, 
mosaics, tilecraft, woodcraft, etc. Also, 
separate catalogue available covering 
lapidary (rockhounding). 

Write today , or return this ad with your name 
end address, for oilhor or both catalogues, 

BEDFORD'S 

on seymour 
578 Seymour St. Van. 2, B.C. 

“Canada's Loading, Most Complete, 
Hobby-Craft Supply House" 

(OUR 23rd BUSY YEAR) 


arise in wilderness travel. Mountain 
travel particularly has its dangers for 
the inexperienced and any counsellor 
who is not sure of the ability of his 
group to undertake a particular trip 
should ask a park warden for advice 
and information. By registering, a 
party’s route, intentions, and planned 
length of stay are made known to the 
wardens so that search and rescue oper¬ 
ations can be carried out quickly and 
accurately if a party becomes over-due. 
On completion of a trip, the leader 
should check out with the warden. 

Mountain climbing is dangerous if 
the party is inexperienced and not 
equipped properly. Leaders who are 
not qualified mountaineers should avail 
themselves of the services of a guide. 

Foremost among the values a 
National Park has for an outing by 
youth groups is its special ability to 
serve as an outdoor classroom where 
nature can be observed and an intelli¬ 
gent appreciation of the virtues of con¬ 
servation encouraged. A child’s first 
experience of an environment in which 
he is an intruder is humbling yet 
deeply instructive. He learns respect for 
all the living things that make the 
National Parks their home, and under¬ 
stands for the first time why it is good 
wilderness manners to enjoy, but not 
destroy or change, the natural state. 

To help youth groups gain a fuller 
enjoyment of their visits to National 
Parks, there are self-guiding nature 
trails and park naturalists. In each 
National Park there is now at least one 
nature trail along which visitors can 
identify trees, shrubs, wild flowers and 
plants, observe evidence of animal life, 
and stop at viewpoints to look out at 
how geological forces have shaped the 
land. Youth groups visiting National 
Parks can arrange to have a park natur¬ 
alist take them on a guided hike or 
present a nature talk. During the 


152 


Canadian Camping 




evenings, there are film showings and 
nature talks accompanied by colour 
slides in the campgrounds or at com¬ 
munity centres. ~ 

Organizations who are fortunate 
enough to be located near National 
Parks are invited to plan special out¬ 
ings and overnight trips to the parks. 
The Superintendents of the National 
Parks will be glad to help counsellors 
arrange organized group visits and pro¬ 
vide information on request. 

—• 


from page 135 

A. A. Bays has prepared Worship Pro¬ 
grammes for Juniors, Intermediates, 
Junior High, Teen-agers, and Life 
Planning. 

Prayers used in the Y.W.C.A. and 
Meditations on the Lord’s Prayer 
are obtainable from the Y.W.C.A. 

YOUNG PEOPLE’S PRAYERS — 
Peter Howard, Associated Press, and 
PRAYERS OF PETER MAR¬ 
SHALL (McGraw, Hill) are for 
older groups. 

LO. GOD IS HERE is a publication of 
the Department of Christian 
Education. 

And of course there is UNDER OPEN 
SKIES by our own Mary Edgar. 


You may have formal or informal 
prayers, daily Bible study, discussions, 
morning watch, or other '■ forms of 
religious observances but the sermons 
will be preached by: 

Every staff member in camp—his 
behaviour, his relationships with 
campers and other staff members. 

The philosophy of your , camp and 
its relationship to its practice; (par¬ 
ticularly as it bears out the verbal and 
printed advertising!) 

The care and concern for every last 
camper, including staff. , 

The attitude towards law and order, 
honesty, promises, fair-play, etc. 

The conversation round the campfire 
and elsewhere. 

Experiences on trips. 

The choice of songs, plays, stories, 
skits, etc. 

The attitude towards visible signs of 
God’s creation. 

The words—even the idle words— 
of the director, section director, water¬ 
front counsellor, etc. which take on an 
importance far out of proportion to 
their merit, for they are the utterances 
of heroes (even although the speaker 
would be the last to realize this.) 

In fact everything which happens at 
camp is shouting out messages far 
louder than the messages spoken on the 
Sabbath day. 


BOAT ACCESSORIES 

for every type of Water Craft 

A complete line of equipment for every marine need carried in 
our showrooms — 

SAILS - HARDWARE - ROPE - CANVAS - PAINTS - VARNISHES 
GLUES and COMPOUNDS, Etc. 

TOM TAYLOR LIMITED 

The Best in Quality and Service 

81 Front Street East EMpire 3-8761-2 Toronto, Ontario 


Toronto, Canada, June 1963 


153 



from page 131 

In the event of fire, mobilizing of the 
available staff with the least possible 
delay is essential. This will necessitate 
some form of alarm signal which can 
be operated instantly and be of suf¬ 
ficient intensity to be heard and recog¬ 
nized as a fire alarm throughout the 
camp. The signal may be a klaxon, 
siren or bell, and preferably electrically 
operated. The switch or other control 
must be accessible at all times to the 
staff. More than one operating point 
may be required, depending on the size 
and extent of the camp, and there 
should be some means of indicating the 
location of the fire, e.g. a coded signal 
on the fire alarm. 

It will also be necessary to develop 
a set of instructions regarding the action 
to be taken in case of fire, with specific 
directions for the staff and campers. 
Provision to be made for the carrying 
out of a roll call to ensure that all 
persons are accounted for. In order to 
accomplish this, an assembly point or 
points should be designated, and the 
campers and counsellors to proceed 
there on hearing an alarm of fire. 

Basic fire prevention measures should 
be adopted and all persons on the camp 
site must co-operate in executing them. 

The following points are intended as 
as a guide for the use of Camp 
Directors: 

1. The regulations and preventive 
measures specified by the appro¬ 
priate Provincial Government 
department (e.g. Department of 
Lands and Forests, Forest Protect¬ 
ion Branch, Provincial Forester, 
etc.) to be followed implicity. The 
Camp Director should contact the 
local Forester of the Department 
and obtain his advice. (In the 
event of fire involving the bush 
the Department must be notified). 


2. Smoking to be regulated. There 
will be certain areas where smok¬ 
ing should not be permitted, and 
the rule enforced. 

3. Some buildings may require to be 
heated, this being so, only equip¬ 
ment labelled by one of the follow¬ 
ing should be installed—Canadian 
Standards Association (C.S. A.), 
Underwriters’ Laboratories (U.L. 
or U.L.C.), Canadian Gas Associa¬ 
tion (C.G.A.); the equipment to 
be installed in accordance with the 
listing, particular attention being 
given to clearances from combust¬ 
ible walls, etc., and the provision 
of the correct vent flue or chimney. 

4. Wherever possible, illumination 
should be by means of electricity. 
In the event that oil lamps must 
be used they should be located 
clear of combustibles, and fastened 
securely where they cannot be 
easily damaged, filling of the 
lamp reservoir to be carried out 
in the open. NOTE: oil lamps 
must not be used in buildings in 
which concerts, plays, sing-songs, 
etc. arc conducted. 

5. Burning of garbage may be carried 
out provided it is done in an in¬ 
cinerator, fitted with an effective 
spark arrester. The location chosen 
to be clear of shrubbery, trees and 
grass. Burning operations should 
not be carried out when a strong 
wind is blowing. The local Fores¬ 
ter should be consulted regarding 
burning operations. 

6. Grass and weeds should be kept 
under control around all buildings 
either by cutting or the use of 
weed killer; non-flammable weed 
killers only to be used (this in¬ 
cludes those preparations contain¬ 
ing chlorates, etc. which although 


154 


Canadian Camping 



non-flammable are strong sup¬ 
porters of combustion). 

7. Flammable liquids such as gaso¬ 
line, kerosene, etc., should be 
stored in a separate building, re¬ 
mote (at least 50 feet) from all 
other buildings. The store to be 
provided with top and bottom 
ventilation on at least two opposite 
sides and not equipped with arti¬ 
ficial lighting. 

8. Campers should not be permitted 
to carry matches, and other per¬ 
sonnel should carry safety matches 
only. (This will not apply to those 
campers undergoing survival train¬ 
ing when “strike anywhere’* 
matches may be used). 

9. Most buildings at camp sites are 
of wood construction. If camp 
concerts are to be held indoors 
they should be conducted on the 
ground floor only. Scenery and 
stage properties including decora¬ 
tions, drapes and curtains, to be 
non-flammable or be treated with 
a flame-retardant solution. Real 
flame (candles, oil lamps, etc.) must 
not be used under any circum¬ 
stances. At least two exits, each 
not less than 4'6" in width, to be 
provided remote from the stage, 
and the doors must open outwards. 
Gangways or aisles at least 3'6" 
wide leading directly to the exits 
to be maintained. Where chairs 
are used for seating they should be 
fastened together in units of not 
less than 4 and not more than 12. 
Two exits to be provided from the 
stage itself and fire extinguishing 
equipment located on both sides of 
the stage. 

10. Some camps cover a large area 
and there may be instances where 


the use of boats is necessary to 
provide access to the more remote 
locations. Where this condition 
exists it may be desirable to keep 
some fire-fighting equipment in one 
of the boats in order that an 
attendance at the scene may be 
made with the minimum of delay. 

11. As a general rule it can be assumed 
that water will be the best exting¬ 
uishing agent for the cabins and 
tested areas. This can be provided 
by water type fire extinguishers for 
first aid fire fighting, to be backed 
up by the fire pump and 1J4" hose 
lines. Kitchens, however, should be 
equipped with special equipment 
such as dry chemical extinguishers 
and fire blankets. Paint shops and 
flammable liquid stores should be 
provided with dry chemical ex¬ 
tinguishers located outside the 
room or store. Purchase equipment 
listed by one of the recognized 
testing agencies such as—Under¬ 
writers’ Laboratores (U.L. or 
U.L.C.), Factory Mutuals (F.M.), 
or Fire Officers’ Committee of the 
United Kingdom (F.O.C.). 

12. Propane gas is commonly used for 
cook stoves and hot water heaters. 
The equipment must be approved 
by the Canadian Gas Association 
(C.G.A.) and installed by a com¬ 
petent contractor in accordance 
with the listing, the manufacturers 
specifications and the regulations 
made under the Energy Act (Ont¬ 
ario). (N.B. Equipment utilizing 
propane are under the jurisdiction 
of the Ontario Department of 
Energy Resources). All such equip¬ 
ment requiring vents to be pro¬ 
vided with a listed Type B. vent. 
Propane cylinders must be located 
out of doors and be supported on 
a firm foundation. 


Toronto , Canada , June 1963 


155 



BETTER BOOKS FOR 

BETTER CAMPING 

Selected Resources 


_Camp Counseling....|8.25* 

.Campground Atlas of the 

United States and Canada .13.00 

_Campground Guide . $2.95 

__...Camping for Emotionally 

Disturbed Boys .— -75c 

.Camping Skills for Trail Living ....$4,95 

.The C I T in Resident Camping ....$1.25 

_Complete Book of Camping .$4.95 

...Europa Camping and Caravaning ....$2.20 

.Family Camping (Sunset) .$1.75 

.Family Camping 

(Better Homes and Gardens) -$2.95 

.New Understandings 

of Leadership .$3.50 

_Silva Compass.Type 6 Rambler—$3.50 

.Stalking the "Wild Asparagus .$4.95 

_-The Book of Outdoor 

Winter Activities .$4.50 

_The Young Sportsman’s 

Guide to Camping .—.$2.50 

_.Training Camp Counselors 

in Human Relations .-.$3.75 

.Three Minute Devotions 

for Boys and Girls .$3.50 

.Wilderness Cookery ....$3.95 


A.C.A. Publications 

.Bibliography of Studies and Research in 

Camping and Outdoor Education—Single 
copies $1.50; 4-9 copies $1.25; 10 or more 
copies $1.00.* 

_Bibliography of School Camping and 

Outdoor Education ..-.50e 

.Campcraft Instructor's Manual .$1.50 

...—..Convention Highlights_Members $2.00 

Non-Members $3.00 

.Research Monograph No. 1 

(Therapeutic Camping) . 35c 

.Spotlight on Drama in Camp—Single 

copies 75c; 2-24 copies 60c; 25-49 copies 
50c; 50 or more 40c.* 

*Denotes no membership discount. 
Postage charges will be additional. 

A.C.A. Members are entitled to 
a 10% discount (except where * 
appears on order form). Please 
fill in membership information 
in space provided. 

Region. Section. 


Name . 

Street . 

City, Zone, Prov. 

Amount Enclosed: $. 

Please Send Invoice. 

American Camping 
Association 

... — ,|nc. 

BRADFORD WOODS 
MARTINSVILLE — INDIANA 


from page 134 

or second rainy day of the season. It 
should be a project in which everyone 
participates, and in which opportunity 
for solo star roles is practically non¬ 
existent. At the close of such a com¬ 
pleted project each member of the staff, 
exhilarated with success, looks at all 
other staff members with new appre¬ 
ciation and one feels the glow of “Look 
what we did!” One can almost see the 
group swell in assurance as we take 
time to evaluate the completed event. 

Fifthly. Evaluation—not necessarily 
called by that formal term—is also a 
most valuable tool. How did we do as a 
group? In what area could we have 
done better? What were our best 
points? How should we do it next 
time? Enough of this should be done 
with any group to teach the procedures 
and help form the habit of uncon¬ 
scious self-evaluation. And part of this 
evaluation must always be discerning 
praise and appreciation for the success 
of the group’s effort. No director or 
supervisor should confine his words to 
the type of criticism which tears apart 
and does not build up. 

Sixthly. Another valuable tool in 
promoting this feeling of group 
strength is playing together. Of course 
you have provided a staff room, but 
do not overlook regular parties for the 
whole group, not too highly organized, 
a chance for conversation and sitting 
around a fire and singing—and eating. 
Remember that your counsellors would 
like the opportunity to know you as a 
person as well as a camp director. It 
is not enough to keep open house in 
your cabin—be sure that every coun¬ 
sellor gets there. “All work and no play 
makes Jack a dull boy” is very true of 
counsellors. And when we live in a 
closed community we must be very sure 
that we see that play goes on. If some¬ 
one says: “Some night we should have 
a cribbage tournament”—seize on it 
and say “Let’s—when shall we do it 


156 


Canadian Camping 













































and how shall we organize it?” A 
happy group of counsellors in turn 
transmits happiness to the campers. 

We have pointed out the morale 
building effects of thinking, working 
and playing together. We cannot over¬ 
emphasize their importance. Now how 
shall we educate this group? Both 
camp directors and counsellors are 
busy people. We could easily spend 
eight full weeks in counsellor training 
sessions only—but all of us have other 
duties. How can we make the most of 
onr time and of the counsellors’ time? 

Now let us proceed: We have a 
camp, a philosophy of camping and a 
number of children to look after. In 
order to decide what this group of 
counsellors needs to know we must first 
have clearly in mind what we expect 
our camp to accomplish for each child. 
We must have worked out for ourselves 
an administrative structure which will 
cover every phase of the camp’s opera¬ 
tion. “A healthy happy outdoor ex¬ 
perience” is a very pretty phrase. But 
a camp director should know about a 
hundred thousand sub-headings to list 
as the ingredients which make up a 
healthy happy outdoor experience. 
These ingredients are the things that 
our counsellors need to know: 

How to teach swimming, canoeing, 
sailing, handcrafts, firebuilding, cook¬ 
ing, square-dancing, etc. in such a way 
as to fulfill the fundamental philoso¬ 
phies of this camp. 

How to motivate, discipline, lead, 
understand, educate and protect 
campers. 

How to do all the above and fill out 
a mass of forms in twenty-four hours 
per day. 

And so on ad infinitum. This is 
again an area requiring much dedi¬ 
cated thought on the part of the 

* 


GUMPERT HAS EVERYTHING 

NEW — NEW — NEW 
Trip Litas 
Cream Desserts 
Fruit Drinks 

Griddle & Waffle Mi* & Syrup 

Spaghetti Sauce 

Soups 

Gelatine Desserts 
Instant Mashed fotatces 
Brownie Mix 
Cake Mix 
Egg Custard 

S. GUMPERT CO. OF CANADA, LTD. 

31 BROCK AVE., TORONTO LE. 1-5758 



PAINTS 

SOLIGNUM STAINS 


A FULL LIN IE OF PROTECTIVE 
COATINGS FOR YOUR CAMP 

9 Sturgeon Rd. PLymouth 

Scarborough 5-1171 


FIRST AID 
HEADQUARTERS 

All first aid requirements 
Phone or write for catalogue 

WHOLESALE PRICES— 

FAST SERVICE 

Serving Industry & 

Camps since 1935 

• 

EMERGENCY FIRST 
AID SERVICE LTD. 

1447 Bleury St. 
MONTREAL 2, P.Q. 
Phone 845-5165 


Toronto, Canada, June 1963 


157 




Director. We must have a concept of 
every job in camp. A realistic under¬ 
standing of just what we are asking 
and expecting these counsellors to do. 
We learn much right on the spot, but 
this is not enough. This is a very good 
way to employ ourselves during the 
winter months. This is the time for 
reading and research, for unhurried 
thought and contemplation. Having 
outlined carefully what we feel this 
staff needs to know, let us consider what 
tools we can employ to transmit this 
knowledge. 

1. Staff manual with all the routine 
procedures, rules, regulations, time 
tables. What do we do on laundry 
day? Suggestions for evening pro¬ 
grammes—perhaps a list of games. 

2. Handbooks for specific areas of the 
camp. 

a. The section — different of course 
for each section. 

b. Each activity — including the 
Health Centre. 

c. Miscellaneous—how to run the 
camp banquet; how to handle the 
regatta; Publications prepared by 
others — mimeographed material; 
A.C.A. and O.C.A. publications; 
A camp library with good reference 
books. 

3. A series of talks — inspirational if 
possible—and on a challenging intel¬ 
lectual level; spread out over the 
entire summer and delivered at the 
most opportune moment. These 
should be so designed that they al¬ 
ways convey the philosophy of the 
camp. 

4. Evaluation as mentioned before. How 
are we doing? Every group needs to 
know this. It needs praise as well as 
derogatory criticism. It needs an out¬ 
side lift such as that thrilling letter 
of gratitude and praise you received 


last week from a parent—read it to 
them, keeping it anonymous of 
course. 

5. And don’t overlook the demonstra¬ 
tions and instructive talks planned 
for campers. It is possible to teach in 
one operation and at one time every 
soul in camp how to do certain things 
—care for a paddle—watch a sail¬ 
ing race intelligently, identify a plant, 
etc. 

6. Remember to provide opportuni¬ 
ties for learning by use of bulletin 
boards—visual aids. 

7. Remember to use every technique 
you have ever learned for transmit¬ 
ting knowledge. Seeing, hearing, 
doing; the laws of cause and effect, 
of repetition, of spaced learning, the 
whole versus part learning. Change 
your style — use humor, solemnity, 
emotion, drama. Only please—never, 
never descend to sarcasm. 

8. Very frequently counsellors teach 
other counsellors, for example at a 
special session on how to cook around 
a campfire where those who are 
skilled can provide hints for those not 
so skilled. 

9. General Staff Meetings — which 
should be frequent, brief, businesslike 
and thoughtfully organized. One 
could write volumes on the subject, 
but briefly: 

a. Their content should be of import¬ 
ance to every person present—not 
devoted to solving the problems of 
one activity of one section of camp, 
nor to making up the daily pro¬ 
gramme. When the swimming 
staff has a problem which concerns 
every member of the counsellor 
staff (such as safety procedures 
out on picnics, cookouts, etc.), 
then it should bring the final 
phases of that problem to a staff 


158 


Canadian Camping 



meeting. The Head of Programme 
should bring only unavoidable final 
details — never should the daily 
programme be planned en masse 
unless one is seeking suggestions 
for the planning of some unusual 
day—when the thermometer has 
suddenly risen from 48 degrees to 
110 degrees. 

b. This is the time for making known 
things such as: food for the special 
cookout will be ready at 4:30 p.m. 
It will be packed in cardboard 
boxes and will have the counsel¬ 
lor’s name on the box. Need for 
volunteers to help with some 
special project. The new system 
for waste paper collection. The 
visitors who may be expected in 
camp today. 

c. Counsellor training—5 minutes on 
any subject—or any phase of the 
camp operation — by director or 
some qualified person. 

What is leadership. 

What to do about “mush mags” 
and comic books. 

Why we teach children to be 
courteous—or tidy, etc. 

Open your eyes to nature. 

Vandalism. 

Homosexuality. 

Discipline. 

Over the years one learns what sub¬ 
jects may arise—back to the notebook 
again. Outline these classical gems you 
produce and keep them to help you in 
future years. 

General staff meetings should also be 
flexible enough to allow greater time 
when a problem arises which is going 
to take thinking, discussion and 
decision; not time gained by length¬ 
ening this meeting now in progress; 
time gained by telling the group to 
think this over and return tomorrow 


prepared for intelligent discussion. 
Then whittle down the agenda for the 
next day, whiz through the absolutely 
essential details and say “now for that 
problem”. Sometimes the problem is 
such that it seems best to appoint a 
committee of knowledgeable people to 
appear at the next staff meeting with 
the material for discussion outlined. 
Incidentally — a camp director can 
learn a great deal about current uni¬ 
versity thought on psychological and 
sociological and educational matters by 
asking staff members to “tell all of us 
what the Psychology Dept, at McGill 
teaches on this matter”. 

General staff meetings can also be 
dedicated to various aspects of camp 
life, i.e. the counsellors of one particular 
section of camp may be given an 
opportunity to outline for the rest of 
us the ways in which we can help the 
campers of their section. 

In other words, ideally every staff 
member should come out of each meet¬ 
ing feeling that she has learned some¬ 
thing, or has contributed to the general 
learning of the group. 

Smaller staff meetings 

Sections: With section head respons¬ 
ible for conveying information which 
pertains to that section. 

Discussing problems which arise 
within that section. 

Then the section head can winnow 
from this the problems which should 
go to the health dept., the director, the 
general staff, etc. 

Activities : Where there is a staff of 
more than two, it needs to sit down at 
least once a week and evaluate its 
progress to date, make future plans, 
and iron out current problems, (i.e. 
are we all teaching this stroke the same 

* 


Toronto, Canada, June 1963 


159 



way and seeking the same standard of 
performance). 



Your Last Chance 

to be one of 
the happy ones on the 

19 6 3 

Camping Friendship 
Round the World cruise 
and tour 

by ship, bus and plane 

Oct. 4 — Dec. 2, 1963 

Write for full information, and 
make your reservation 
promptly before 
choice space is 
all assigned. 

Contact 

HOWARD P. GALLOWAY 

Dept. CC, Camping Magazine 
1114 South Ave., Plainfield, N.J. 


The Comp Council, Executive body, 
etc. Composed of some such personnel 
as section heads, head of waterfront, 
head of programme, etc. and the 
Director. Here the Director can seek 
guidance as to what is needed, can 
learn counsellor and camper problems; 
here broad, general plans can be pro¬ 
jected—but never carried out over the 
heads of those concerned. 

With the exception of the last named 
meeting all the above can be accomp¬ 
lished with one regular half-hour each 
day. 

In defense of this “Organization” it 
is my feeling that if all the nagging 
little details are so cared for, we are 
left free to devote our energies to the 
larger areas of true accomplishment. 

We have talked of the education of 
our counsellor staff*—naturally we won¬ 
der how to supervise it. Methods here 
are as widely varied as the educational 
backgrounds of directors and section 
heads. My suggestion would be to use 
the administrative structure of the 
camp itself. A section head can be held 
responsible for knowledge concerning 
every counsellor and every camper in 
that section. The head of swimming 
can be expected to assess the progress 
and success of every counsellor . and 
camper under his guidance. These 
individuals in turn bring their findings 
to the administrative council for dis¬ 
cussion and consideration by the direc¬ 
tor. A word of caution to the Director: 
only God Himself could have sufficient 
insight into human nature and char¬ 
acter to fill out some of the evaluation 
forms that come to one’s notice. It has 
been my experience as a director, that 
by informing these supervisors as to 
what material is useful and what is not 
can avoid setting up a system which 


160 


Canadian Camping 




invites the supervisor to hypercritical 
observations, and delving into person¬ 
alities almost to the extent of psycho¬ 
analysis. What we need to know really 
is—is the job being done well? If not 
why not? What are the best areas of 
job performance? How can we help the 
stall? The Director must always bear 
in mind that these supervisors are 
human, there may be personality 
clashes which colour the true picture; 
the director must observe for himself, 
must be quick to detect and iron out 
difficult areas. Always one must strive 
for detached and objective observa¬ 
tions. In any area of human relation¬ 
ships subjective discusson of person¬ 
alities is a trouble breeder. And always, 
the follow-up work should be conscien¬ 
tiously and helpfully fulfilled if the 
unity of the staff is to be maintained. 
As I mentioned before, this Executive 
Council, with its position for wide¬ 
spread observation can keep the 
Director in touch with the feeling of 
the various camp areas. If a director 
is informed that there are heated argu¬ 
ments going on over such and such a 
topic, he does not need to be told all 
the little details, he can find out for 
himself. If he is told that in certain 
areas of camp no work is being accomp¬ 
lished he can go and observe this for 
himself. A camp director must be 
humble and receptive enough too to 
accept criticims of his own actions and 
judgment. We too are human — we 
can be thoughtless and apparently un¬ 
feeling in our dealings with others. We 
should be thankful that we have staff 
members loyal and courageous enough 
to tell us these things. This knowledge 
of trouble spots, together with what we 
have learned in other years will help 
us with the discipline of the counsellor 
group. 

Generally speaking, a well-knit group 
with high morale does most of its own 
disciplining through the simple ex- 

* 


Oscar Pearson Enterprises 

PLAYGROUND 

AND 

SWIMMING POOL 

ACCESSORIES 

For Summer Resorts, Camps 
and Summer Cottages 
SURF BOARDS AND SWIM AIDS 
PYE TRANSHAILERS 

Write for 1963 Catalogue 
206 Sherbourne St. — EM. 3-3166 
HU. 5-5206 


For Sale . . . 

CO-ED RANCH CAMP 

Approximately 100 miles from 
Toronto. Capacity 120 campers 
Beautiful swimming pool. 40 
horses and ponies. Wonderful 
hills for skiing if this sport is 
developed. Write Box 1545, 
Canadian Camping Magazine, 
170 Bloor St. W., Toronto 5, 
Ontario. 



ADULT MOSQUITOES 
and BLACK FLIES 



INSTANTLY, with a 

DynaFog 

GENERATOR 

Enjoy outdoor activities 
in the evening — PEST FREE 




I2.CO SERVICES 
^ L I M I T I D 


write now for a free 
demonstration 


232 NORSEMAN ST., TORONTO 18, ONT,. 


Toronto, Canada, June 1963 


161 









pedicnt of group pressure. These things 
are done—these things are not done. 
By and large you could probably name 
right now the type of problems which 
will arise with next summer’s counsellor 
group. They may be such as: dissen¬ 
sion, lack of cooperation, care of equip¬ 
ment, the mid-season slump; cliques, 
inequalities of labor, hours, privileges; 
the third successive day of rain; in¬ 
sufficient sleep and rest; use of time ofT; 
relationships with other groups outside 
the camp; the camp director himself; 
conflict with the kitchen stafT; etc., etc. 
How shall we deal with these things? 

First of all, let the group know ahead 
of time that you know that many of 
these problems will in all probability 
arise. Perhaps before they even rear 
their ugly heads we can devise solutions. 
This is a good time to seek guidance 
from the group—when there is no real 
trouble. Its judgment is then objective, 
there is no personal involvement. At 
this time too the staff is very receptive 
to the thinking and solutions from other 
years. 

But unforeseen problems always arise. 
How do we cope with these? First 
of all we must acknowledge that a 
problem exists. We must not turn our 
backs and refuse to see it. Remember 
this staff is influencing the attitudes 
and judgment of the children under its 
care. This camp is dedicated to the 
welfare of children. It must not harm 
or neglect them. Having acknowledged, 
we must explore this problem and seek 
for a solution. This exploratory dis¬ 
cussion is best done by the senior group, 
the executive council. It can perhaps 
suggest several solutions. Then these 
findings should be taken to the larger 
group for consideration and decision. 
The group will realize where duty lies. 
Again we must use our judgment—is 
the problem one which deserves such 


solemn treatment? Or is it so funda¬ 
mental that decision rests with the 
director alone? 

Finally, not only in the matter of 
discipline but in all our staff relations 
we are expected to be fair, consistent, 
sympathetic, understanding and demo¬ 
cratic. These are the self-same qualities 
we recommend that the counsellors 
cultivate in their relations with the 
campers. We can strive for no higher 
goal than that we always treat our 
staff in the manner that we ourselves 
would wish to be treated if we were 
counsellors, and someone else were our 
director. 


CAMP MANUAL a C.G.I.T. booklet 
—which is published by the Department 
of Christian Education, Canadian 
Council of Churches—$1.50. 

This is a comprehensive little booklet 
covering as it docs everything from how 
to cope with a Camp Committee to 
Pre-Camp Training Sessions, Worship 
etc. 1 he duties of the key staff in any 
camp are well outlined and, with modi¬ 
fications, should prove an excellent 
basis for job analyses. For a person with 
limited camp experience who is facing 
a big camp job this summer, it should 
prove to be a real find. There is a 
refreshing absence of technical lang¬ 
uage and professional gobbledegook 
which seems to have crept in to so 
many books these days. 


EDITOR’S ACKNOWLEDGMENT 

Your Editor wishes to express her 
appreciation for the kind and willing 
assistance she has received when 
serious illness struck at home. Special 
thanks go to Miss Bertram and Mrs. 
Flynn who have made these last two 
issues possible. 


162 


Canadian Camping 






one frieaos ... 

The Advertisers 


American Camping Association . 156 

Bedford's On Seymour . 152 

Cash’s Canada Labels Ltd. 163 

Inside Back Cover 

Chuck Wagon Foods . 151 

Continental Casulaty Co. 

Outside Back Cover 

T. Eaton Co. Ltd. 123 

Emergency First Aid Service Ltd. 157 

Foodcraft Laboratories Ltd. 124 

Galloway Publishing Co. 160 

Gibbons Foods Ltd.Inside Front Cover 

S. Gumpert Co. of Can. Ltd. 157 

Ingram & Bell Ltd. 151 

Lepage’s Ltd. 145 

Lewiscraft . 146 

Longmans Canada Ltd. 128 

Maple Leaf Plastics Ltd. 124 

McKaguc Chemical Co. Ltd. 127 

P.C.O. Services Ltd. .. 161 

Oscar Pearson Enterprises . 161 


The Quaker Oats Co. of Can. Ltd. 125 

Singer’s Food Products Ltd. 152 

Starkman Chemists Ltd. 163 

Inside Back Cover 

Sturgeons Ltd. 157 

Tandy Clarke & Clarke . 126 

Tom Taylor Co. Ltd. 153 

G. H. Wood & Co. Ltd. 126 


CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING RATES: 
Twenty cents a word, minimum five dollars. 
All classified payable in advance. Address all 
correspondence to “Canadian Camping”, 170 
Bloor Street West, Toronto, Ontario. 


When Ordering 

PLEASE REMEMBER 

one 

ADVERTISERS 



Make it a requirement that all 
campers' clothing and belongings 
are marked with 


NAMES 
WOVEN 

Camp linen and equipment, too, 
should be marked to avoid con¬ 
fusion and loss. Names, numbers, or 
special markings can be supplied. 

Ask for details of our special 
service to Camp Owners and 
Operators. 

order CASH'S WOVEN NAMES 
from dealers, or 

CASH'S 2120 CABOT STREET 
^ ° n MONTREAL 20. QUEBEC 


Name: 3 doz. $1.80 6 doz. $2.40 

Prices: 9 doz. $3.00 12 doz. $3.50 


Wholesale 
Medical 
Supplies •.. 

Medical Equipment 
First Aid Requirements 
Drugs and Medicines 

• 

Low Prices Fast Service 

STARKMAN CHEMISTS 

459 Bloor St. W. - Toronto 
WA. 2 - Twenty-One - Twenty-One 










































INCREASING RESPONSE 

for 

CONTINENTAL’S CAMP-GUARD PLAN 



ACCIOENT and SICKNESS \ 

INSURANCE 


HAS GUARANTEED ITS 
AVAILABILITY 
FOR ANOTHER YEAR 


DISPLAY THIS SYMBOL 

STICKERS AVAILABLE FOR YOUR STATIONERY 


A choice of plans for all organizational, church and 
private camps providing broad medical expense 
protection for each accident and each sickness at low 
cost group rates for both campers and staff members. 

Put CAMP-GUARD on your programme. Display 
this symbol and let parents know your camp is 
covered. This symbol of outstanding coverage 
assures them you take added interest in your 
camper's welfare, by providing a CAMP-GUARD 
accident and sickness plan. 

Your local insurance agent will help you choose the 
right plan for your camp; or write our nearest office 
for full particulars. 


CONTINENTAL CASUALTY COMPANY 

INDUSTRY MARKETING & SPECIALTY DIVISION 


Suite 307 

1281 Georgia St. West 
VANCOUVER 5, B.C. 
MUtual 4-6381 


160 Bloor St. East 2100 Drummond Street 
TORONTO MONTREAL 

WAInut 4-4692 Victor 9-5306 


607 Imperial Bank Building — EDMONTON — GA. 24642 
C.P.R. Building — WINNIPEG — WH. 3-8723 
670 Bentall Bldg. — CALGARY — AM. 3-1937 








