Canadian 

camping 



Canadian Camping Association 
Association des Camps du Canada 

Official Publication Officielle 


Vol. 29 
No. 5 

October 1077 


SUITE 203, 102 EGLINTON AVENUE EAST 
TELEPHONE (416) 488-7345 


TORONTO, ONTARIO M4P 1E1 


AND HOW WAS YOUR SUMMER? 


— evaluating your camp 

by barry lowes 

When the summer ends there is a natural inclination to breathe a sigh of relief 
that all has gone well and the campers are all safely back home. Sometime this 
fall, take time to sit with your feet up, and reflect upon summer. This is the 
beginning of an evaluation of the camp. 


Evaluating means: What went well? Why? What could we have done better? If we 
could begin this summer all over again, what would we do differently? 


Evaluating is important because professionally we want to improve or upgrade the 
level of our camp operation and performance. 


We should evaluate everything! There is no aspect of your camp, including your¬ 
self, that should escape the strong light of scrutiny. 

The Director's attitude sets the tone. Whether it will be searching, penetrating 
and worthwhile or whether it will be perfunctory and therefore worthless will de¬ 
pend primarily upon your ATTITUDE. 


Are you defensive or open? You can't hide your true attitude towards evaluation, 
it will show through. 

(cont. on page 4 ) 


1 










A Director's Checklist 


by Eanswythe Flynn 


In response to many requests we are 
reprinting the first of a series of 
columns by Mrs. Flynn entitled "Do it 
Now! A Camp Director's Check List". 

The second column will appear in the 
December 1977 issue. We hope you will 
be able to incorporate some of these 
ideas into your own list of "things 
that must be done". 

NOVEMBER 

On last visit to camp, check cabins for 
mice nests, broken windows, etc. 

When leaves have fallen, check for neces¬ 
sary tree cutting and brushing. 

Make follow-through arrangements with 
maintenance staff or local woodsman 
who "knows how". 

Reprint camp folder, using new photo¬ 
graphs and copy if necessary. ("Cana¬ 
dian Camping" May, 1977) 

Check supply of letter head and enve¬ 
lopes, statement forms and any other 
needed stationery. What about staff 
contract forms and invoices? 

Plan Camp Reunion during Christmas Holi¬ 
days Perhaps a theatre party or an¬ 
other kind of special event: include 
parents as well. 

Review camp activities for new ideas, 
new skills, new programme emphases. 

DECEMBER 


Order and prepare for mailing all 
Christmas Cards. 

Have maintenance staff prepare for win¬ 
ter... watch for snow load on roofs, 
fallen trees, care of water supply in 
winterized buildings, sagging hydro 
wires. 

Agency camps should investigate the 
availability of surplus commodities and * 


supplies. These can be available for 
the asking, but requests should be in 
early. This includes "scraps" from arts 
and craft supply houses, linoleum and 
carpet ends, clearance of fire-damaged 
goods which can be used in arts and 
crafts, drama etc. 

Take some responsibility with your 
Provincial Camping Association, and re¬ 
member that your suggestions, as well as 
news or happenings from your province 
or your own Association will be of the 
greatest interest to readers of Canadian 
Camping across Canada. 


*##**###***# 


CANADIAN CAMPING 

is published 6 times a year by the 

Canadian Camping Association 
102 Eglinton Ave., E. # 203 
Toronto, Ontario M4P 1E1 

(416) 488-7345 

SUBSCRIPTION RATES 

1 year $5.00 
3 years $12.00 


COVER We have incorporated the cover of 
the "Canadian Camping" Magazine, 
Vol. 27 No. 1 to Vol. 28 No.3, designed 
by Violet Catlin, Graphics, 4 Canzone Dr., 
Toronto, into the front page of this and 
the previous six newsletters. 



n\ 




r\ 


FOOD and FINANCE 


SOME PRACTICAL SUGGESTIONS TO KEEP COSTS DOWN 

With inflation sending food costs into the upper stratosphere, camp budgets 
could take a severe beating unless care is taken in purchasing, preparing, and 
serving the food. The following suggestions may be helpful. They first appeared 
in CAMPING , the magazine of the American Camping Association. 

1. Know what to buy. Consider grades other than Fancy. Standard grade costs 
less and has just the same nutritive value. 

2. The price of a case of canned goods is directly linked to the yield. What 

is most important is how much usuable produce will you get out of the case. 
This is what you are paying for.not six cans to the case. 

3. Review your menus to determine effective substitution of items in more plen¬ 
tiful supply. Eliminate items that historically end up in the garbage can. 

4. Institute a training program for kitchen help and servers, emphasizing the 
necessity of eliminating wastefulness in handling and serving food. 

5. Check your kitchen equipment, particularly your production equipment, to 
assure proper performance. Don't believe your thermostats, check them for 
accuracy. Faulty equipment can result not only in food loss but impair the 
orderly and efficient operation of your kitchen. 

6. Don't overcook. Prepare what you need with the minimum over for additional 
helpings. 

7. Make your distributor salesman work for you. He should have the knowledge 
and information to assist you in determining the best pack and yields; what 
the best buys are; what new items are available; what items are in short 
supply and what items are plentiful; menu information; assurance of supply 
at fair prices. 

8. Increase your initial orders. Larger orders are more desirable and help 
eliminate extra deliveries during the season. This can help in securing 
preferred pricing. 

9. Increasing storage facilities is urgent. Proper facilities for pre-season 
purchasing and storage can save many dollars. 

In view of the phenominal price increases in some food items.... sugar, for 
example, increased over 400 % in a two year period, affecting all other products 
in which sugar is a major component....anything that will keep down food costs 
should be investigated. Good food is an essential at any camp, but food wastage, 
or poor purchasing, should be scrupulously avoided. 


3 





HOW TO EVALUATE YOUR CAMP. 


(cont from page 1 ) 


Is it evident that you welcome criticism? Do staff tell you what they believe you 
want to hear or do they know that you honestly want and respect their opinions and 
will consider carefully their recommendations. 


You aren't obliged to agree! 


You should consider their suggestions carefully, discuss them fully and share your 
reasons for not carrying out some of their recommendations; for example, budget, 
staff, timing, agency policy, etc. 

Criticism has a bad reputation. It is usually seen as being negative. It can be 
positive, a healthy exercise, an educational experience. It need not be equated 
with skinning someone alive. 


Everyone should be given an opportunity to evaluate. Some directors will say "I 
don't need all this democratic fallderall. I know what's going on". Sure you do 
but so do others. It is a matter of perception and perspective. Each aspect of 
camp looks different when perceived by different people in camp. 

The Campers 

Whc has a greater right to evaluate camp than the campers? They are your clients. 
Surely you want to know how they feel. Hold discussions within each cabin group. 
Depending upon the age, they may or may not need help from a staff member. Con¬ 
sider brief evaluation forms which obtain their reactions to activities, food, 
staff, etc. Do this anonymously. Handwriting will enable you to determine roughly 
the age group. (You might send out a questionnaire to some campers this fall.) 

The Counsellor-in-Training 

They should evaluate their own program, verbally through discussions and also in 
writing. In turn they have, like all staff, a right to know how they are doing 
during during the season and a final evaluation of how they did overall at the end 
of the summer. These should be both written and oral, carried out by the staff who 
have had the best opportunity to observe the C.I.T. first-hand. The C.I.T. has a 
right to discuss the report with the person doing them. It is a basic human right 
and also a sound evaluation technique. 

The Counsellors 

Have them write brief reports on their campers. Reports which help them to focus 
upon each child and indicate that they have had some goals and some insights into 
the camper. These are brief, confidential and must be written candidly to be of 
value. 

Some camps have the staff write a final letter to parents. If you can find coun¬ 
sellors who can spell, write a grammatically correct sentence and couch the letter 
in acceptable terms then you are lucky. I tell all parents that we have reports 
and that I would be glad to share their contents upon request. The director then 
answers such requests. 

(cont. on page 5 ) 




HOW TO EVALUATE YOUR CAMP 


(cont. from page 4 ) 




r*s 




Counsellors, should also do an anonymous evaluation on the camp from their vantage 
point. What did they expect from the summer? What did they find? Ask about super¬ 
vision. Too little, too heavy, helpful, hindrance? Ask for any recommendations for 
improving camp. You may not like everything you read, but it is important that you 
know how they feel. 

The Unit or Section Heads 


They do evaluations on all staff. We do formal brief, sit-down evaluations of staff 
at the end of the first few days, in order to determine whether or not he or she is 
off to a sound start. Does she know her campers? Questions will determine whether 
or not she really knows what is happening to them and how each camper is faring. 

We have each counsellor do a self-evaluation at the mid-point in the summer. They 
fill out the same form that the unit head will use at the end of the summer. The 
form serves as an agenda for a discussion. It is a valuable device for helping staff 
to become full of insight about themselves. 

At the end of the summer each counsellor has a final evaluation to learn how others 
have viewed his summer - how he did. 

If time permits a director should sit down with each counsellor before she leaves 
camp. If this is not possible then an interview during the winter serves in part 
as an evaluation of the counsellor's past summer and a look ahead to the next. 

Be positive! Find good things to praise as well as some areas that need attention 
and strengthening. Evaluation should not be synonymous with "put-down". 

The Instructors 


Each specialty counsellor or instructor should sit down and evaluate their activity. 

What went well? Why? What could we have sone better? What innovations did we try? 
How well did they work? What would they recommend for next year that would improve 
their activity? Get them to put their ideas on paper and give them to you. Ask 
them to think in terms of facilities, equipment, staff, program ideas, etc. 

It is vital that each specialist make an accurate inventory of the equipment under 
headings such as: Item of Equipment, Quantity, Good Condition, Need Repairs, Discard 
Quantity to Purchase Next Year, Where is it Stored? This last item is so important, 
if you aren't to spend frustrating hours and days next spring with a new staff mem¬ 
ber trying to guess where last year's specialist stored something away. 

The Senior Staff 


Time has to be found towards the middle of camp and again at the end for senior staff 
to evaluate every department of camp, as seen from their vantage point. It is ideal 
if they can remain at camp a few days at the end of the season. This permits a much 
more relaxed and thorough evaluation, free from the inevitable interruptions. 

The Kitchen Staff 


This is the biggest, most costly and to many campers the most important department 
in camp. Kitchen staff are not machines, they are people. Consult them. Who knows 
better than those in the kitchen what is going well and what needs to be improved 
and how? 

Everything from equipment, facilities, use of available kitchen area, systems, me- 
■ _*_._ (cont. on page 6 )_ 




HOW TO EVALUATE YOUR CAMP 


(cont. from page 5 ) 


thods of service, staffing, menus, preparation, deliveries, purchasing, garbage, etc 
all need to be studied and evaluated. 

Health Services 


Equipment, facilities, hours, procedures, medical supplies, health forms, inventory, 
follow-up medical letters are all part of an evaluation of this area. Have the staff 
submit a written comment. 

The Maintenance Staff 


Don't overlook your maintenance staff. They should know what needs to be looked af¬ 
ter during the off-season. From the evaluations of every other department in camp 
you should be able to compile lists of indoor, outdoor, major and minor maintenance 
jobs that need to be done before camp opens next year. You must categorize them, 
then set priorities, according to time, funds and staff available. In this way you 
can set out a work schedule that will ensure that camp is in A-l condition when you 
open next year. 

Others 


Take any departmrnt in camp and apply these same principles and techniques to evalua¬ 
ting each one. 

The Parents 


Entrusted to your care is their most precious possession. What were their expecta¬ 
tions? How do they feel about their child's camping experience? More than anything 
else, they will sell your camp to others or sink you, depending upon how satisfied 
or unsatisfied they were. Their unsolicited letters both good and bad are an impor¬ 
tant evaluation too! 

If they are bad, look into the matter and then follow-up, not with excuses but with 
a full account of what your investigation turned up, together with an apology if 
warranted 

You may never hear from some parents. Their child just doen't return. Don't shrug 
it off. Send out an anonymous questionnaire to find out why? The replies could be 
very revealing. 

The Directors 


Collate all of these reports. From them develop lists of repairs, items to be pur¬ 
chased, staff to be rehired, programs to change, etc. Re-read these reports and 
recommendations after camp when both the glow and the pain have subsided. Use them 
to plan for an even better summer next year. 

I re-read them again just before camp opens and once more at the end of the first 
week to be sure that we have followed up on and are really acting upon the recommen¬ 
dations of last year. It is a valuable check on how you are doing. Do you talk 
about change and improvements or do you really make it happen? 

Evaluation is most effective when it goes on all year round, but there are a few 
special times to originate certain actions, to make the evaluation easier. 


(cont. on page 7 ) 





HOW TO EVALUATE YOUR CAMP 


(cont. from page 6 ) 


During the Summer 

Show staff the forms they will be using before camp begins so that they will know 
what is expected of them. Invite staff to suggest improvements to the evaluation 
forms and process itself. 

Review the previous year's recommendations with this year's department heads. At the 
end of the first week check back with each staff member involved to ensure that recom¬ 
mendations are being carried out. 

It angers me to hear someone say "it's too late to change this year". The devil it 

is! We have made major changes on the second last day of camp in order to see some 

idea in action and thus obtain some first-hand assessment. Rather than theorizing 
all winter, trying it at the beginning of next summer and finding out then that it 

won't work. Coasting can be a disease that sets into a camp, after mid-term unless 

you are prepared to continually evaluate, improve and if necessary change at any time. 
In particular, every department should have a thorough evaluation at mid-term. 

Review your goals....on target? How could we improve further? 

At the End of the Summer 


We have discussed earlier some of the ways to evaluate and who evaluates at the end 
of the summer. Set deadlines for completing evaluations. The end of camp is a busy, 
even hectic time. If you do not provide time for written and oral evaluation, they 
will be done hastily and prove to be of little worth. 

After the Summer 


Free from the day-to-day pressures of directing camp, you can take time to review, re¬ 
flect and decide from among the many recommendations you will receive. Make some 
tentative decisions immediately while everything is fresh in your mind. Make notes. 
Then set these aside for a month or two. Come back to them and you will find that 
your perspective has changed. 

Meet with your staff to review last summer and plan for next. Share this process 
with others, those who will be most affected by your decisions. This process con¬ 
tinues all winter as you meet to interview and rehire staff. 

There will be casual meetings on the path or on the dock. There must also be time 
set aside and scheduled in which to meet each person. Keep a list of those whom you 
have seen and when. If you don't do this you find that at the end of the summer there 
are staff whom you have missed. 

What Tools Do you Use to Evaluate ? 

We have already discussed written reports and forms, verbal evaluations, letters to 
and from parents. It is important that some of your evaluations are anonymous, other¬ 
wise you will not get straight answers and incisive recommendations. This applies 
especially when asking campers, staff and parents to evaluate the camp. 

You must be sure to let staff know who will have access to the evaluations. Con¬ 
fidentiality is vital! 

What Do You Do With the Evaluations? 


Use them! Don't file them away or else everyone's efforts have been wasted. Paper 
__ • - (cont. on page 12) 



Can good P.R. sell your camp ? 

It sure can help ! 

Reprinted from an article by Rona Vasserman which appeared in CamgingJ&gazine^ 

November/December 1971, the official publication of the American Camping Assn. 

It doesn't matter if you've never sold anything ... if you believe strongly in 
what you have to sell, good public relations can help sell i.t for you. And, as 
camping people, aren't we trying to "sell" parents on sending their children to 
our camps? 

The best salesmen, of course, are the campers who have had a happy, relaxed and 
exciting summer at camp ... most of our new campers are referrals from former cam¬ 
pers. But even happy campers and staff need a back-up sales force. Our camp car¬ 
ries on a complete program of public relations with campers, parents and potential 
camper families. 

The first contact is with the campers who have just left camp. In September 
we send each one a questionnaire to get their feelings about the camp experience 
and their suggestionsnfor next year. They know we will take them seriously, both 
from past questionnaire results, and from our camper councils during the summer. 

If they really prefer hamburgers to the extent that they write "NO ROSTE BEEF"., 
who are we to insist on serving roast beef every week? 

Every camper who filled out the questionnaire last year, except one, planned 
to return the following season. That little girl filled out the entire form, 
telling us everything she liked at camp, which campers she'd like to bunk with 
next time, the counsellors she liked the best, and a new place for a trip. Then 

on the question ".are you planning to be back at Naticook next year?" she 

printed in bold letters, "DEFINITELY NOT. NO NEVER." 

The questionnaire return is high, and the answers to the last question provide 
names and addresses of children who are friends and relatives of campers. 

KEEP CONTINUOUS CONTACT 


Starting in November, we send something to camper families every month. In 
November we mail a Yearbook to each camper, counsellor and prospect name obtained 
from questionnaires. This in turn brings in new questionnaires. About half our 
prospects are sold by the Yearbook. It is imperfect, photo»-offset, obviously writ¬ 
ten by children. The pictures are not professional. But the Yearbook gives the 
feeling of the camp much better than the slick brochure we used 18 years ago when 
we first began. 

In December we invite parents to enroll their children, letting them know we'll 
bill them for deposit in January. Our card is typed so that parents have only to 
sign and return it. Campers are promised an "early sign-up appreciation souvenir" 
for December enrollments. Last year, more than half our enrollment was by the end 
of December. 

(cont. on page 9 ) 


8 











CAN GOOD P.R. SELL YOUR CAMP? . ( cont. from page 8 ) 

As we receive each camper's enrollment card, we write a personal note, letting him 
know how happy we are that he'll be with us again. Campers returning for second, 
third seasons, etc. receive different souvenirs - pennants, banners, camp nightshirts 
and so on. 

A January Newsletter gives names and hometowns of new campers, and includes a wel¬ 
come plus thanks to those who referred them. We also include messages from our 
foreign counsellors. 

In February, we send parents their first information sheet and a clothing list for 
each child. A March Newsletter notes returning counsellors, more new campers, new 
counsellors, and information on "what's new at Naticook." Each mailing results in 
phone calls, letters and those beautiful firm referrals. And so we continue the in¬ 
formation sheets to parents and Newsletters to campers right up to opening day. 

Some parents want to meet us, and we invite them to our home. We also make visits, 
frequently out of state. We no longer use slides as we once did, but now use three 
albums of photos instead. One covers all the activities at camp and the other two are 
filled with pictures of the previous summer. The children get very excited on seeing 
their friends in the camp pictures. 

Most parents, having been presold by former campers and satisfied parents, just 
chat. But occasionally we do get the third degree. Last year, all but two sets of 
parents who came to see us enrolled their children within a week. 

As soon as the new camper is enrolled, we send him a welcome note, and an emblem 
to put on a jacket or shirt; his parents get a note, questionnaire and return enve¬ 
lope. These new campers, before even having attended camp, start to refer their 
friends. Many referrals come for children of friends or out of state counsellors. 

The outstanding element in our having a truly memorable season is, we all agree, 
our counsellor staff. They were sold on camp during orientation: we had fun working 
together on a counsellor show; we fed them well; on-the-spot training was provided 
where needed; and we gave them all the tools we could to help them be effective coun¬ 
sellors. 

During the season, the administrative staff is always available to listen or help. 
The swimming pool and social hall are open to counsellors at night. There is always 
food in our refrigerator and a comfortable chair in front of the fire in our home. 
Relaxed counsellors talk easily about children, camp and personal probelems. 

They in turn, give us their all .. sometimes even performing over their heads. 

They play with campers even when unassigned. They honour our requests for cleanliness 
sobriety and no pot-smoking, and we don't ask them to give up their long hair and 
beards. 

We are fortunate in having a loyal, capable administrative staff, who leave us 
free to be with the children most of the time. There probably are some reasons we 
don't know about, but we have to give a big share of the credit for our healthy 
enrollment picture to our thriving, busy public relations program. 

Dr. and Mrs Joshua Wasserman are owners and directors of Camp Naticook, N.H. 

Mrs. Wasserman is a former Public Relations Chairman for A.C.A.'s Region I. 


9 



C.C.A. NATIONAL CONFERENCE 


Geneva Park, Ontario 
January 19—22,1978. 


Through the co-operation of Recrea¬ 
tion Canada and the Canadian Camping 
Association, the third National Con¬ 
ference will he held January 19 - 22, 
1978. 

Delegates must he in Toronto no later 
than 2:00 P.M. Thursday, January 19th, 
and all delegates will he returned to 
Toronto no earlier than 2:00 P.M. Sun¬ 
day, January 22nd. 

There will he many phases to the 
Conference, hut the highlight theme 
will he "Keys to Success"... factors 
which determine the degree to which a 
camp is and can be successful. 

Programme: 

The opening Session will be directed 
primarily to the identification of those 
"Keys". Friday will deal with the ef¬ 
fective Management of Time.theory 

and a particular emphasis on the ways 
and means in which the theories can be 
applied to our own particular needs in 
the camping profession. The leader 
for the Friday session will he Mr. David 
Bratten, Employee Relations Manager, 
Gescan Division, Canadian General Elec¬ 
tric. 

The sessions on Friday evening, and 
throughout Saturday will deal more spe¬ 
cifically with problems (and we hope, 
some solutions) related to Staff, Cam¬ 
pers and the Site. 


Speakers for these specific sessions 
will he from across Canada, and as a re¬ 
sult, a wide selection of views and ex¬ 
periences can he shared. 

The conclusion on Sunday morning will 
he organized on a Provincial basis with 
matters relating to the ways and means 
in which information and suggestions 
from the previous three days can he re¬ 
lated to camps in each Province. 

Cost per delegate will he $75.00. 

Economy Air Fare return to Toronto 
will he covered for those outside of 
Ontario. Administration and Room and 
Board costs will be covered for every 
delegate, along with transportation to 
and from Geneva Park and Toronto. 

Delegates are selected by each Pro¬ 
vincial Camping Association. It will 
be up to the Provincial Organizations 
to determine who shall attend.... but 
if selected, the C.C.A. seeks the dele¬ 
gates’ commitment throughout the entire 
Conference... and if some ’research* or 
’homework' is necessary prior to the 
conference, we would expect that in or 
der to gain full benefit from the four 
days, each delegate would follow through 
to the best of his or her ability. 

The range of delgates attending this 
Conference should be interesting for it 
is hoped that there will be content of 
a level appealing to not only very ex¬ 
perienced Directors, but those who are 
involved in organized camping for the 
(cont on page 11) 


10 





11 









HOW TO EVALUATE YOUR CAMP (cont. from page 7 ) 

work must be kept to a minimum. Only require reports that will be read and studied 
and used. 

Get a large loose-leaf notebook and divide it into sections for each department and 
area of your camp operation. By entering recommendations in each section you have a 
handy complete reference for all of them in one convenient place. Year by year you 
will build up a valuable historical pattern of evaluations, recommendations and re¬ 
sults, department by department. 

The companion piece to the three ring notebook is the small pocket-size notebook. 
Carry it in your pocket and use it to jot down ideas and reminders to yourself, hour 
by hour as you move about camp. Even a genius cannot remember every detail. Besides 
one of the most satisfying experiences is crossing something off your notebook as 
"done". 

These are some ideas and suggestions which I hope will serve as catalysts to your 
thinking, or a framework upon which you can build a system of evaluation that best 
meets your particular needs. 

The ultimate evaluation is: 

How many of your campers and staff want to return to camp this summer? 

Turnover is your barometer of success. 

To grow, a camp must constantly evaluate its operation or sink inevitably into stag¬ 
nation. 

This article has been adapted from 
an earlier presentation by Mr. Lowes 


Si I D9N "3uq ‘uopuoi 
Zi ‘ 3 dv *SA]flf puejg g 0 l 
uoaipijnQOM 3iuep ssjw 


6TT£-800 NSSI 



131 dfrlAJ 01 U VI NO 'OlNOHOl 
1SV3 3 ft N 3 A V N01NI1D3 ZOl tOZ 31inS 


dlAIVO 0003 
V 30 

N9IS 3H1 



opoiw.t np sdmn.) sjp uoi/oi.)<mo 
uoi/nuosso fiuidiuoj umpoiwo 



% 















