PUBLICATIONS 

1982-83 



CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU CANADA 

Suite 2, 1806 Avenue Road, Toronto, Ontario, Canada M5M 3Z1 
Telephone: (416) 781-4717 





CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 

The Canadian Camping Association was founded in 
1936 as a non-profit organization. It is a national 
federation of provincial camping associations uniting 
the camping leaders into an organization involved in 
the growth, development and promotion of camping in 
Canada. 

All Canadian Camping Association programs and pro¬ 
jects are made possible by membership fees, private 
contributions and funds from Fitness and Amateur 
Sport, Government 01 Canada. 

The Canadian Camping Association operates a book¬ 
store, primarily as a service to its members. Books of 
interest to camp directors, administrators, parents, 
counsellors and leaders working with children and 
youth in the outdoors are available in the Toronto office 
or may be ordered by mail or telephone. 

The books handled by Canadian Camping Association 
are classified into broad categories and listed alphabeti¬ 
cally with a brief description of their contents, the 
publisher and the price. At the end of this catalogue 
there are order forms and an alphabetical index. 

As well as selling books from both Canadian and 
American sources, the Canadian Camping Association 
publishes a number of titles and is the distributor in 
Canada for books published by the American Camping 
Association. 

Terms 

All prices are subject to change without notice. Pay¬ 
ment due within 30 days of invoice date. 

A service charge of 2% per month on the unpaid 
balance will be added to overdue accounts. 

We do not accept returns except in the case of error or 
damage. Authorization for such returns must be re¬ 
quested in advance. 

The publication of this catalogue is financially supported 
by the contributions program of: 


ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU CANADA 

L’Association des camps du Canada, creee en 1936, 
est un organisme a but non lucratif et une federation 
nationale des associations provinciales de camping 
reunissant les organismes qui se vouent a la croissance 
et a l’expansion du camping au Canada. 

Tous les projets et programmes de l’Association des 
camps du Canada sont realises grace aux cotisations 
des membres, aux contributions des particulars et aux 
subventions de la Direction generate de la Condition 
physique et du Sport amateur du gouvernement 
federal. 

L’Association des camps du Canada offre un service de 
librairie a ses membres. Les livres interessants les res- 
ponsables de camps d’enfants et d’adolescents (direc- 
teurs, administrateurs, parents, conseillers et 
moniteurs) sont disponibles au siege social a Toronto. 
On accepte les commandes telephoniques ou postales. 

Nos publications sont divisees en categories generates. 
La liste alphabetique contient un resume succinct de 
chaque publication et indique lediteur et le prix. A la fin 
du catalogue se trouvent la liste alphabetique des livres 
et des bons de commande. 

L’Association des camps du Canada vend des livres 
canadiens et americains, ainsi qu ses propres publica¬ 
tions. De plus, elle est le distributee des livres publies 
par l’American Camping Association. 

Conditions 

Tour les prix peuvent etre modifies sans preavis. Tour 
les dettes actives sont payable apres 30 jours. 

Une surcharge de 2% par mois sera ajoutee aux comp- 
tes en souffrance. 

Nous n’accepterons pas de livres en retour sauf en cas 
d’erreur ou de dommage. II faut en obtenir l’autorisa- 
tion a l’avance. 

La publication de cette brochure est financee par le pro¬ 
gramme de subventions du: 


■ Government of Canada 

m ™r Fitness and Amateur Sport 


Gouvernement du Canada 
Condition physique et Sport amateur 


2 


NEW BOOKS 



CAMP ADMINISTRATION 


Camp Director Education Curriculum Guide $7.00 

Project Stretch 

Designed as a resource for trainers and college instructors dealing with camp 
director education or camp administration. Units include: life span develop¬ 
ment, special populations, role of the director, philosophy, program, organ¬ 
izational design, staff, development and support, interpreting the value of 
camp, evaluation, business and finances, health and food service, site and 
facilities. Each unit contains a rationale for the competencies, areas 
to be covered, suggested learning activities, methods of assessment and 
references. 

American Camping Association. 46 p., 1981. 

Camping Strategies for the Eighties $6.75 

Diane Pick, Ed. 

Proceedings from the National Symposium sponsored by Indiana, Michigan 
and Ohio Sections and the Fund for the Advancement of Camping. 

American Camping Association, 35 p ., 1981. 

(The) Day Camp Program Book $ 18.80 

Virginia Musselman 

The four basic sections of the new revised edition of this useful activity 
manual for day camp counsellors include almost everything one would like 
to know about day camp programming. There is information on camp emer¬ 
gencies, the bus program, council ring, trips, weather and sports, and 
physical fitness. This new edition is particularly valuable since it affords a 
basic staff training resource specifically geared to day camping. 

New Century Publishers, Inc., 335 p., 1980. 

National Day Camp Proceedings $7.25 

A Summary of Proceedings from the Symposium held in November of 
1980. The Proceedings combine information on multiple topics in the field of 
day camping; pressures on day camps, the child, the community, the day 
camp director, goals/values, outdoor education resources, staffing, trans¬ 
portation and energy, marketing and the future of day camping. 

American Camping Association, 119 p., 1981. 


CHURCH AFFILIATED CAMPING 

God/Man/Land: Interrelationship Programs for Camps $7.25 

P. Paetkau 

This book provides a theology of Christian camping and some general prin¬ 
ciples in working with church groups. The programs are divided into sug¬ 
gested topics for ages 9-11, 12-13 and 14-16. A section on resources intro¬ 
duces additional material and activities. A very useful book for a church 
leader working with children on outdoor topics. 

Faith and Life Press, 155 p., 1978. 

Worship in Youth and Children’s Groups $4.50 

Bernie and Margaret Neufield 

There are many times and places in the life of a child when he can be exposed 
to a conscious awareness of the presence of God and begin to develop a 
sense of corporate worship. This booklet has been prepared with Sunday 
School in mind, but the general principles and practical suggestions can be 
extended to various church related settings, such as, retreats, camps, vaca¬ 
tion Bible schools, etc. 

Faith and Life Press, 43 p., 1981. 



COOKBOOKS 

Wanapitei Canoe Trippers’ Cookbook $5.95 

Carol Hodgins 

“Wilderness cooking for fun and nutrition” is the subtitle of this informative 
book of recipes. It has evolved from Carol Hodgins’ own experiences as Trip 
Stores Director for Wanapitei, a wilderness canoeing camp on Lake Tema- 
gami. For the past fifteen years, Carol, with the help of staff, has been 
responsible for providing tens of thousands of nutritional meals for both 
youth and adult groups. As well as many pages of delicious recipes, there 
are sections on nutrition, types and quantities of food, cost, packing, prepar¬ 
ation and cooking and many other valuable suggestions to make mealtimes 
a highlight of any trip. 

The Highway Book Shop, 87 p., 1982. 



3 




















SEE YOU 
AT THE 
CONGRESS 



CRAFTS 

(The) Book of Arts and Crafts S4.50 

M. Ickis and R.S. Esh 

This is an almost inexhaustible collection of arts and crafts which can be 
made in a matter of minutes. There are instructions on techniques and prep¬ 
aration of materials. A functional index places the projects in the category 
where they can best be used: camps, playgrounds, schools, churches or in¬ 
dividuals. Clearly illustrated. 

Dover Publications, Inc., 276 p., 1974. 

Drums, Toms-Toms and Rattles $4.50 

Bernard S. Mason 

Complete instructions and 21 illustrations guide teachers, children and 
musicians in the art of making these percussion instruments from simple 
materials. 

Dover Publications, Inc., 206 p., 1974. 

(The) Indian How Book $5.75 

Arthur C. Parker 

How Indians made canoes, tipis, traps, arrowheads and pottery is described 
in this book from Mr. Parker’s personal experience and knowledge of Indian 
life; but it is more than a craft book and goes on to examine and reveal 
customs, food, clothing, religion and recreations of these first American 
naturalists. 

Dover Publications, Inc., 335 p., 1975. 

GENERAL PROGRAM 

Conservation Activities $3.00 

Johanna Koeslag, B.Sc. 

A manual of conservation activities as developed at Camp Allsaw, where 
campers and staff work together to apply the principles of the recycling pro¬ 
cess and organic gardening into producing nutritious and delicious crops for 
the enjoyment of the entire camp. A complete description of the procedures 
from composting through to harvesting and preparations for the next year is 
included as well as a chapter on bee keeping and honey extraction. 

Camp Allsaw, 40 p., 1977. 

Outdoor Education Equipment $11.00 

R.E. Bachert and E.L. Snooks 

Here in one book are over 100 ideas for the construction and use of self- 
made eqiupment. Each piece of equipment is illustrated with a detailed line 
drawing and is accompanied by an explanation that includes its purpose, 
materials needed, procedure for building and some direction for its use. 
Educators, naturalists, students, ecologists and young scientists will find in 
this book a wealth of ideas for further study of the environment. 

The Interstate Printers and Publishers, Inc., 204 p., 1978. 

Tips and Tricks in Outdoor Education $9.00 

Malcolm D. Swan, Ed. 

This valuable aid for every outdoor education program has been compiled 
from ideas, notes, mimeographed materials and lesson plans by members of 
the staff of the Department of Outdoor Education at Northern Illinois Univer¬ 
sity’s Lorado Taft Field Campus. Included are chapters on Animal Studies, 
Awareness and Creative Expression, Environmental Impact, Interpretive 
Trails, Nature Arts and Crafts, Outdoor Recreation and much, much more. 

The Interstate Printers and Publishers, Inc., 190 p., 1978. 


HOW TO SERIES - 

LA SERIE COMMENT FAIRE $ 1.00 

In English and French/En frangais et anglais each/chacun 

• “Fun and Fitness at Camp’’ or “Au camp: les plaisirs de la forme” 

• “Maximum Participation at the Waterfront” or “Vers 1’utilisation maximale 
du plan d’eau du camp par 1’evaluation des installations et des activites” 

• “Organizing a Sailing Program” or “Comment organiser un programme 
de voile” 

• “Winter Camping Skills” or “Techniques de camping d’hiver” 


LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT 

Camper Guidance: A Basic Handbook for Counselors $2.00 

A 24 page pamphlet by Dr. Joel W. Bloom and A. Cooper Ballentine and a 
special committee of camp directors from the New England Section of ACA 
designed to help counsellors in guiding campers. Although specifically 
directed at beginning camp counsellors, the content is broad enough to be of 
value to all levels of camp leadership. Unavailable for several years, we are 
happy to offer it again. 

American Camping Association, 24 p., 1971. 

Guide for Training Camp Staff $3.50 

Project STAFF 

A model for staff training designed for 16-21 year old youth from low-income 
settings. It has been compiled by ACA’s Project STAFF, a Youth Employ¬ 
ment Program project for the U.S. Department of Labour. Provides model 
schedule and activities, adaptable to any camp staff training. 

American Camping Association, 32 p.. 1981. 




4 



MISCELLANEOUS 

Bibliography of Research in Organized Camping, Environmental 
Education, Adventure Activities and Interpretive Services $ 19.95 

Compiled and edited by Dr. Betty van der Smissen and Judy Brookhiser, 
this is a comprehensive bibliography of research in the listed fields plus 
articles from related periodicals in those subject areas. Indexed by subject 
and institution, this bibliography covers all research through 1980. 

American Camping Association, 300 p., 1981. 

Camp Staff Position Introductory Folders $0.25 each 

Six folders designed to provide prospective camp staff members with infor¬ 
mation about the camp setting positions. The first is a general folder intro¬ 
ducing the camp as a work setting, showing the variety of jobs available to 
youth and pointing out career opportunities to which the jobs could lead. 
The remaining five provide specific information in five job areas. 

“Introduction to career ladders and entry positions in Summer Camp”; 
“Camp Assistant Counsellor”; “Camp Health Aid”; “Camp Kitchen Aid”; 
“Camp Maintenance Assistant”; “Camp Office Assistant”. 

American Camping Association, 1981. 

Good Time Fitness for Kids: A Guide for Parents, 

Coaches and Counselors $8.65 

Thomas D. Fahey, Ed.D. 

A guide for promoting an active lifestyle for children and youth, with refer¬ 
ence to their physical, psychological and emotional growth from childhood 
through adolescence. 

New Century Publishers, Inc., 1982. 

Winds from the Wilderness $7.50 

Carolyn Birmingham, Ed. 

This collection of favourite quotes by well-known authors is suitable for quiet 
times at camp or on the trail. Topics such as Leadership, Wilderness, Moun¬ 
tains, Adventure, Self-Discovery, Play, Friendship, Dignity, Solitude, Hap¬ 
piness and many more, are included in this illustrated anthology. 

Canadian Outward Bound Wilderness School, 111 p., 1982. 



John F. Gardner 

This book has been prepared for the purpose of providing worthwhile exper¬ 
iences in the field of nature activities for boys and girls of elementary school 
age. They should be able to read it, with perhaps a little help, and do the 
activities that are suggested. 

The Interstate Printers and Publishers, Inc., 37 p., 1967. 

Sharing Nature with Children $8.50 

Joseph B. Cornell 

A nature awareness guidebook for educators, parents or anyone working 
with children in the outdoors; included are suggestions on how to be a good 
nature guide and how to choose the right game for the time and place. The 
activities detailed in the book are wholesome, uncompetitive, imaginative 
games which help the child actually experience what it is to be part of the 
natural world. 

Anada Publications, 142 p., 1979. 



MUSIC 

Old Songs and Singing Games $2.95 

Richard Chase 

A delightful collection of traditional favourites with music and lyrics, songs, 
ballads, carols, folk hymns, singing games. The music is written out both in 
the standard notation and shaped notes; the regular verses are given as are 
the stories behind the songs. 

Dover Publishing, Inc., 49 p., 1972. 



PHILOSOPHY 

Is Camp Administration a Profession? $ 1.25 

William B. Duncan 

An occasional paper by the Fund for the Advancement of Camping. The 
author is currently the director of George Williams College Camp (Wiscon¬ 
sin) and is one of the first to take the Model A Camp Director Institute and to 
continue to participate on the staff of twenty institutes, he is well qualified to 
discuss the professional implications of the camp administrator. 

American Camping Association, 8 p., 1981. 

Year-Round Camping Through Adventure Education Programs $ 1.25 

C. Woodson Baker, director of Camp Holiday Trails (Virginia) discusses 
adventure education in definition, outdoor adventure centers and details 
developing a year-round program in this Fund for the Advancement of 
Camping paper. Camp Holiday Trails serves children with chronic health 
problems. 

American Camping Association, 8 p., 1981. 

SPORTS AND GAMES 

Map and Compass Fundamentals Orienteering $11.95 

Toy Martin & Dave Lotty 

Orienteering can be described as “fun and fitness with map and compass”. 
While fitness is important for the top orienteers, for most, the emphasis is on 
fun. This book demonstrates not only how orienteering can be fun, but also 
how an orienteering-based approach to map reading can make the learning 
of this skill more interesting and enjoyable. 

A.H. & A.W. Reed PTY Ltd., 79 p., 1978. 

(The) Second Cooperative Sports and Games Book $11.95 

Terry Orlick 

The second volume of the “Cooperative Sports and Games Book” is “twice 
as big, twice as much fun”. In it Orlick introduces an entirely new round of 
over 200 active games for indoors and out, and for players of all ages, sizes 
and abilities. There are both original games and new ways to recycle such 


5 








traditionally competitive sports as dodge ball or field hockey into fun-for-all 
challenges. There are: Special pointers on teaching cooperative skills to 
teenagers and adults, a chapter on games to play with toddlers, and ideas for 
making your own playground equipment. 

Random House of Canada, Limited, 267 p., 1982. 

TRIPPING 

Canoe Travel Handbook $6.50 

Canadian Recreational Canoeing Association 

A check list of guidelines for those planning a safe Canoe Trip, prepared by 
the Canoe Travel Committee of the CRCA and published with the assistance 
of Fitness and Amateur Sport. 46 p., 1981. 

WATERFRONT 

Let’s Go Windsurfing $8.95 

The techniques of this fast growing sport are detailed in this new manual 
about board sailing. 

Doubleday Canada Ltd. 

WOODSMANSHIP AND CAMPING 

Emergency/Survival Handbook $3.95 

Robert E. Brown 

A hip pocket book of emergency procedures for anyone at home, office, 
camp, boat or bush. In addition to providing information, the orange cover 
can be used as a highly visible signaling device. It is wax impregnated to 
serve as a fire starter and the mylar centerfold can also be used for signaling 
or as a light intensifier or mirror. Comes in a waterproof pouch-pack. 

American Outdoor Safety League, 45 p., 1979. 

Lightweight Camping $8.95 

Michael Hatton 

“A Four Season Source Book”. This book is intended to promote the wise 
use and understanding of the most up-to-date technical skills and equipment 
available, in order to experience the outdoors. There are chapters on insula¬ 
tion and the concept of layered dressing, map and compasses skills, diet and 
nutrition, emergency care, equipment and its selection, planning and route 
selection as well as an outline of the difference between a survival situation 
and a camping trip. 

Humber College Press, 193 p., 1981. 

Outdoor Living Skills: 

The Outdoor Living Skills Program is the American Camping Association’s 
internationally known program for teaching successful outdoor living based 
upon the knowledge, skills and attitudes acquired only through actual exper¬ 
ience in progressive stages. Integral parts of the program are the promotion 
of the understanding and appreciation of the beauty of the natural world, the 
wise use of natural resources, the application of health and safety practices 
and a sense of achievement and fellowship. 

Since the entire OLS Course can only be taught by ACA certified OLS in¬ 
structors, the usefulness of the following two books can only be that of refer¬ 
ence manuals. 

Instructor’s Manual $6.25 

An outline by which a certified instructor can teach the OLS program. The 
purposes and objectives of the program are covered along with teaching 
plans for the topics in the checklist. ACA, 81 p., 1979. 

Guide for the Director of OLS Instructors $4.00 

Serves as a reference tool: what to do, when to do it, and is a stimulus in 
developing the content and methods to be used in an instructor workshop. 
ACA 12 p.. 1980. 


LEGACY TO 
A CAMPER 

If I had the power to make this will, 

I would bequeath to you 
The child-like sense of wonder 
To last the long year through. 

Wonder - the gift of magic sight, 

To see with eager eyes 
Each miracle of beauty 
In forest, lake and skies. 

The scarlet flames of autumn, 

The tender shades of spring, 

The luna moth unfolding 
Her gossamer green wing. 

The scarlet flames of autumn, 

The crescent moon swung low, 

The sunset from a hilltop, 

The firelight’s ruddy glow. 

A legacy of wonder! 

Could you but guess its worth? 

No other precious dower 
Would so transform the earth. 

Wonder enough to squander 
On every glad surprise, 

For every golden morning, 

For every new emprise. 

If I had the power to make this will, 

I would bequeath to you 
The child-like sense of wonder 
To last the long year through. 

Mary S. Edgar, 

Honourary President, 

Canadian Camping Association 
1960-1973 

This poem and many more will appear in our newest publication, 
Legacy to a Camper, by Jocelyn Palm. This book of program 
ideas and poems for quiet times at camp will be available in Spring 1983. 


6 


CCA/ACC PUBLICATIONS 

* Denotes a Canadian book. All books are soft cover unless otherwise indicated. 


CAMP ADMINISTRATION 

Basic Camp Management S8.50 

Armand B. and Beverly H. Ball 

A practical guide to the art and science of directing a summer camp. 
Especially designed for the new camp director, the book will also provide 
excellent information for the seasoned administrator. The chapters cover: 
program, purpose, and goals, staff, campers, site and facility preparation, 
legal matters, support services, evaluation, and finances. From a combined 
experience of 41 years in the camp field, the authors have produced a uni¬ 
que manual of valuable material for camping administrators. 

American Camping Association, 156 p., 1979. 

Camp Administration - Course Outline $1.25 

A guide for courses in camp administration at the graduate level. 

American Camping Association, 29 p., 1961. 

Camp Director Education Curriculum Guide $7.00 

Designed as a resource for trainers and college instructors dealing with camp 
director education or camp administration. Each unit contains a rationale for 
the competencies, areas to be covered, suggested learning activities, 
methods of assessment and references. 

American Camping Association, 46 p., 1981. 

Camp Management Technical Information Papers $0.50 each 

TIP NO. 9 - “The Camp Staff Applicant: Interview Guidelines.” An outline 
of information and guidelines for the camp staff applicant seeking a position. 

American Camping Association, 1979. 

TIP NO. 10 - “The Camp Director: Interview Guidelines.” A discussion of 
interview techniques and practices from the viewpoint of the camp director 
or interviewer. 

American Camping Association, 1979. 

Camp Staff Job Description $ 1.25 

Suggested job descriptions for basic camp positions. 

American Camping Association, 17 p., 1961. 

Camp Standards with Interpretations $9.25 

A complete listing of all standards with explanations by which a camp may be 
accredited by American Camping Association. These standards detail the 
desirable practices that are basic to quality camp operation; and are designed 
to provide a camp seeking to be accredited with the most complete informa¬ 
tion on the process. 

American Camping Association, 77 p., revised 1980. 

Camp Standards - Condensed $1.50 

An abridged version of the complete standards, sufficient for those who wish 
a general listing of ACA Standards for information purposes. 

American Camping Association, 28 p., 1980. 

Camp Strategies for the Eighties $6.75 

Proceedings from the National Symposium sponsored by the Indiana, 
Michigan and Ohio Sections of ACA and the Fund for the Advancement of 
Camping. 

American Camping Association, 35 p., 1981. 

* Camps: Their Planning and Management $24.95 

Dr. Robert Wilkinson 

Robert E. Wilkinson, Ph.D., of McGill University’s Physical Education 
Department and Camp Nominingue, Quebec, has written this basic text 


which details both the theory and the practice of all the administrative 
aspects of organized camping. The first few chapters describe the present 
scope of organized camping in North America while the middle chapters 
focus upon management of the human and physical resources available to 
camp administrators. The latter part examines supporting services and the 
final chapter provides a full examination of the question of evaluation and in¬ 
cludes assessment of campers, staff, camp program, and the administration, 
including the director. Key features in the book are discussions of health and 
safety for both campers and staff, legal responsibility, administrative guide¬ 
lines - for Canada and the U.S.A. 

Hardbound, C.V. Mosby Company, 291 p., 1981. 

Conservation of the Camp Site $2.00 

A valuable book for all camp directors and administrators. It deals with con¬ 
servation programming and the steps a camp should take to conserve and 
improve their natural features. 

American Camping Association, 48 p., 1960. 

Fundamentals of Day Camping $14.25 

Dr. Grace L. Mitchell 

A revision of the classic book in the field of Day Camping originally published 
in 1960. Fundamentals includes almost any information a day camp admin¬ 
istrator might need. The book discusses the first steps in establishing a camp, 
the site, buildings and equipment, enrolling the campers, administration, 
finance, insurance, transportation, health and safety, and food. Other 
chapters cover the staff, staff training, and discipline and control of campers. 
The final chapters provide a treasury of day camp program in arts and crafts, 
natural resources, adventures in camping, athletics, music and program¬ 
ming for special events and for rainy days. 

American Camping Association, 256 p., 1981. 



National Day Camp Symposium $7.25 

A Summary of Proceedings from the Symposium held in November of 
1980. The Proceedings combine information on multiple topics in the field of 
day camping; pressures on day camps, the child, the community, the day 
camp director, goals/values, outdoor education resources and readings, 
staffing, transportation and energy, marketing and the future of day 
camping. 

American Camping Association, 119 p., 1981. 

* Outdoor Education - Guidelines for Camps $ 1.00 

Walter D. Mingie 

These guidelines for camp directors who are interested in allowing the use of 
their camps by outside groups for outdoor education during the off-season. 
They were developed by a committee chaired by Walter D. Mingie at an Out¬ 
door Education Conference sponsored by the CCA/ACC at La Caleche, 
Quebec in 1974. The booklet looks at the administrative, staffing and camp 
resources necessary for such programs and ends with a plan of action for 
those wishing to proceed. 

Canadian Camping Association, 17 p., revised 1981. 


7 







Short Term Camping Guide $1.50 

A guide for the administration of a brief camping experience. Developed by 
the ACA Standards Committee to meet the need for recommended good 
practices for camps to which the regular resident camp standards would not 
necessarily apply. 

American Camping Association, 8 p., 1961. 

Short Term Camping Work Sheet $0.50 

Additional Copies of the Work Sheet incorporated in the Short Term Camp¬ 
ing Guide. 

Use of Resident Camps for School Programs $1.75 

Dr. Betty van der Smissen 

Guidelines developed by ACA Outdoor Education Task Force for camp 
directors who desire to extend their summer resident facilities to schools con¬ 
ducting outdoor education programs. They are directed toward the initiation 
of such use and is not a manual for the conduct of such schools. 

American Camping Association, 22 p., 1972. 

Your Camp and the Handicapped Child $1.25 

Dr. Phyllis M. Ford 

Useful guidelines for director and counsellor dealing with the handicapped. 
American Camping Association, 16 p., 1966. 



CHURCH AFFILIATED CAMPING 

Church Family Camps and Conferences $3.55 

Elizabeth and William Genne 

A detailed manual for the administrator of camps and conference programs 
in the church. The authors, experts in the field, guide you through every step 
of the planning process: goals, sites, facilities, equipment, personnel, pro¬ 
gram activities, scheduling, evaluation, follow-up and much more. There 
are suggestions for serving families with special needs - parents without part¬ 
ners, three generation families, older couples and families with handicapped 
members. 

Judson Press, 77 p., 1979. 

God, Man, Land: Interrelationship Programs for Camps $7.25 

Dr. Paul Paetkau 

The author has a Ph.D. in biology education and is a consultant on environ¬ 
mental matters. His book provides a theology of Christian camping and 
some general principles in working with church groups. The programs are 
divided into suggested topics for ages 9-11, 12-13, and 14-16. A section on 
resources introduces additional material and activities. Delightfully written 
and logically organized, this is a plus for a church leader working with 
children on outdoor topics. 

Faith and Life Press, 155 p., 1978. 

Let’s Teach Bible Games $3.30 

Donna Fillmore 

This practical book contains numerous suggestions by which the child’s play 
instinct can be channelled into effective and enjoyable teaching and learning 
experiences through the use of Bible games. 

Baker Book House, 72 p., 1978. 


Object Lessons for Children’s Worship $3.80 

Mary Foxwell Loeks 

This book provides a skillfully developed program of songs, memory verse, 
object lessons, correlated Bible story and activity geared to a child’s world. 
The objects used are familiar ones found in most homes or camps and the 
applications made from the objects are clever and unforgettable. 

Baker Book House, 101 p., 1979. 

Worship in Youth and Children’s Groups $4.50 

Bernie and Margaret Neufield 

There are many times and places in the life of a child when he can be ex¬ 
posed to a conscious awareness of the presence of God and develop a sense 
of corporate worship. This booklet has been prepared with Sunday School 
in mind, but the general principles and practical suggestions can be extended 
to various church related settings, such as, retreats, camps, vacation Bible 
schools, etc. 

Faith and Life Press, 43 p., 1981. 

COOKBOOKS 

* Cookery for Kids, Kamp n’ Kicks $4.00 

Helen E. Stewart 

An anthology of recipes used extensively at Camp Wahcahmie in Ontario. 
Tremendous results can be obtained by multiplying these recipes for 6 to 8 
servings by the required number. Aside from delicious ideas for main 
courses, desserts, snacks, there is a section on outdoor cookery and two 
weeks of sample menus. 

Helen E. Stewart, 81 p., 1969. 

* Cookout Manual $3.00 

Sue Whitney 

Developed especially for Day Camp Cookouts, this manual provides some 
new and exciting ideas for both small and large cookouts. The recipes have 
been divided into six major groups according to Canada’s Food Guide. 
There are 35 tested recipes. 

Borough of Etobicoke, Parks and Recreation, 24 p., 1979. 

Kinhaven Cookbook $10.00 

John Ahern 

The alternate title is: How We Feed 120 People. Delightfully written, the 
cookbook from Kinhaven Music School in Vermont combines the practical 
know-how gleaned from years of experience in feeding 120 people three 
times a day with warm, friendly instructions and advice to anyone who cooks 
for large groups. It is written by and for amateur cooks and the recipes are in 
detail and very workable for a kitchen which operates without a great deal of 
expensive equipment. An appendix shows menus of two typical weeks, a list 
of minimal equipment, and sample order forms. A practical kitchen manual 
- and one which you will enjoy reading. 

The Kinhaven Music School, 119 p., 1977. 

* (The) Kitchen Makes the Camp Go ’Round $5.00 

Laurie A. Macintosh dedicates his book to all other cooks preparing good 
food for others at camp, as well as to the memory of all the good times he 
had at camp. . . “most of them spent in the kitchen”. He knows that summer 
camp revolves around good fun, good times and most of all good food. 
These recipes can all be prepared by either first time cooks or an experienced 
chef. The amounts given to yield 50 portions are sufficient to feed groups of 
children up to the age of 14 or 15. There is a section on using leftovers, a 
metric conversion table, and a list of the weights of common foods. 

Laurie A. Macintosh, 87 p., 1981. 



8 




Wanapitei Canoe Trippers’ Cookbook $5.95 

Carol Hodgins 

“Wilderness cooking for fun and nutrition” is the subtitle of this informative 
book of recipes. It has evolved from the experiences of Mrs. Hodgins and the 
staff of Wanapitei, a wilderness canoeing camp on Lake Temagami, Ontario. 
As well as many pages of delicious recipes, there are sections on nutrition, 
types and quantities of food, cost, packing, preparation and cooking and 
many other suggestions to make this important part of any canoe trip a 
success. 


Nature Crafts $14.50 

Ellsworth Jaeger 

With only a few fundamental tools such as a pocket knife, axe, saw and 
scissors and supplies from fields, woods or vacant lots, the crafts discussed in 
this book can be made with a minimum of direction. There are detailed 
drawings showing each step and each project will suggest others to those 
with creative minds. 

Hardcover, Collier MacMillan, 128 p., 1973. 


Highway Book Shop, 87 p., 1982. 

(The) Well-Fed Backpacker $5.25 

June Fleming, a veteran backpacker, explains how one can eat well on the 
trail, winter, summer, spring and fall. Beginning with nutritional needs, she 
goes on to how to buy and prepare food in advance, how to package it most 
efficiently, how to cook outdoors on an open fire or portable stove and how 
to supplement your diet with wild foods gathered on route. There are recipes 
for breakfast, lunch and dinner, for snacks you can take along and for emer¬ 
gency foods. 

Vintage Books (Random House), 111 p., 1981. 



CRAFTS 

(The) Book of Arts and Crafts $4.50 

Marguerite Ickis and Reba S. Esh 

This is an almost inexhaustible collection of arts and crafts which can be 
made in a matter of minutes. There are instructions on techniques and prep¬ 
aration of materials. A functional index places the projects in the category 
where they can best be used: camps, playgrounds, schools, churches, or in¬ 
dividuals. Clearly illustrated. 

Dover Publications, Inc., 276 p., 1974. 

(The) Complete How To Book of Indian Crafts $8.25 

W. Ben Hunt 

A readable and easy-to-follow text with hand-drawn diagrams shows how to 
use actual techniques and designs developed and perfected by the Indians. 
No special tools or even prior skills are required. In addition. Ben Hunt pro¬ 
vides a remarkably interesting source of information about the first Ameri¬ 
cans; their highly developed artistry and design; their beliefs and traditions. 

Collier MacMillan, 187 p., 1973. 

Drums, Tom-Toms and Rattles $4.50 

Bernard S. Mason 

Instructions for making your own primitive instruments: drums, tom-toms, 
rattles, percussion devices, etc., from simple materials: coffee cans, flower¬ 
pots, etc. Emphasis is on American Indian techniques and instruments, but 
other traditions also covered. A very rich book, filled with fascinating pro¬ 
jects for teachers, children, nature buffs, musicians too. 

Dover Publications, Inc., 208 p.. 1974. 

(The) Indian How Book $5.75 

Arthur C. Parker (Gawaso Wanneh) 

How Indians made canoes, tipis, traps, arrowheads, pottery; Indian dances, 
songs, rituals; hunting, cooking, taming animals, more. Elementary level; 
sound anthropologically. 

Dover Publications, Inc., 335 p., 1975. 


Weaving with Reeds and Fibres $3.95 

Osma Galliger Tod and Oscar H. Benson 

Step-by-step instructions for beginners. Baskets, bread trays, ropes, plaited 
belts, mats, chair seats and more can be made as well as many rope and raf¬ 
fia projects. 

Dover Publications, Inc., 199 p., 1975. 

Whittling and Woodcarving $5.75 

E.J. Tangerman 

From the beginner to craftsman, hundreds of projects are described. The 
care and use of tools, selection of woods, as well as skill instruction is 
included. 

Dover Publications, Inc., 293 p., 1962. 

GENERAL PROGRAM 

Camp Program Ideas $7.50 

A collection of favourite special events from coast to coast: special days, 
evening programs, competitive events, inspirational events, meal themes, 
rainy day activities and miscellaneous events. The author’s permission to 
reproduce this material has allowed the CCA/ACC to distribute this book at 
a new and lower price. 

Recreation Department, San Diego State University, 90 p., 1977. 

* Concise Book of Knots $2.95 

Terry Brown and Rob Hunter 

The authors’ stated purpose is to list thirty knots directly relevant to the ac¬ 
tivities of climbers, campers, yachtsmen and ramblers and then to illustrate 
them with large, clear drawings and step-by-step instructions. 

Gage Publishing, 63 p., 1977. 

Conservation Activities (Camp Allsaw) $3.00 

Johanna Koeslag. B.Sc. 

A manual of conservation activities as developed at Camp Allsaw, in Ontario. 
Campers and staff work together to apply the principles of recycling and 
organic gardening into producing delicious and nutritious crops for the en¬ 
joyment of the entire camp. A complete description of the procedures from 
composting through to harvesting is included as well as a chapter on bee 
keeping and honey extraction. 

Camp Allsaw, 40 p., 1977. 




* 


Cow’s Tails and Cobras $10.00 

Karl Rohnke 

A fascinating name for a book which is described as a guide to rope courses, 
initiative games, and other adventure activities. But it is more, since it deals 
with the activities from the perspective of: increasing the participant’s sense 
of personal confidence, increasing mutual support within a group, develop¬ 
ing an increased level of agility and coordination, and an increased fami¬ 
liarity and identification with the natural world. The activities are exciting and 
new; instructions are clear and precise. A valuable additon to camp pro¬ 
gramming or to any program concerned with activities for kids. 

Project Adventure, 156 p., 1977. 


9 





Goodtimes Around the Campfire $3.00 

LaRue A. Thurston 

This condensation of The Complete Book of Campfire Programs includes 
games, stunts, magic, singing ceremonies, special programs - all kinds of 
fun for camping get-togethers. 

Association Press, 128 p., 1967. 

Outdoor Education Equipment $11.00 

Russel E. Bachert, Jr and Emerson L. Snooks 

Here in one book are over 100 ideas for the construction and use of self- 
made equipment. Each piece of equipment is illustrated with a detailed line 
drawing and is accompanied with an explanation that includes its purpose, 
materials needed, procedure for building and some direction for its use. 
Educators, naturalists, students, ecologists and young scientists will find in 
this book a wealth of ideas for further study of the environment. 

Institute Printers, 204 p., 1974. 

Raindrops Keep Falling on My Tent $3.50 

Joy MacKay 

A revision of an old favourite, this rainy day book is packed with hundreds of 
great ideas of what to do in camp when it pours. Workable and interesting 
program possibilities which come from Joy Mackay’s experience as camp 
director, camp consultant, and college professor. Suggestions include rainy 
day programming for individuals, cabin groups, and all-camp activities. Rain 
can be beautiful, even at camp with Joy Mackay’s suggestions and your own 
ingenuity. 

American Camping Association, 20 p., 1981. 

Spotlight on Drama $2.00 

Barbara Winslow 

A revised and updated version of the earlier Spotlight. The book includes a 
complete description of the elements of a camp drama program: why, the 
principles for success, the administration of a program, sources for drama 
counsellors, suggestions for facilities and equipment, and budget and costs. 
A section on camper development growing out of participation in such a pro¬ 
gram, and an updated bibliography. Delightfully and interestingly written. 

American Camping Association, 22 p., 1979. 

Tips and Tricks in Outdoor Education 
Malcolm D. Swan 

Compiled from ideas, notes, mimeographed materials, lesson plans, and 
guides by members of the Dept, of Outdoor Education at Northern Illinois 
University’s Lorado Taft Field Campus, this resource is a most valuable aid to 
every outdoor education program. 

The Interstate Printers and Publishers, 184 p., 1978. 

Woodsmoke and Campfire $2.00 

Ernest F. Schmidt 

A definitive description of campfires: kinds, the site, laying the fire, types of 
fires, program and presentation. An excellent resource for campfire pro¬ 
gramming. 

American Camping Association, 1980. 





HEALTH SERVICES 

Accident Report Form $0.25 

Camp Health Cards/Forms $0.25 each 

Health Exam. Card (Boy’s) 

Health Exam. Card (Girl’s) 

Health Exam. Form (General) 

Health Record Card 
Health Record Form 

Camp Staff Application Form $0.25 

The above camp forms were produced by the American Camping Associa¬ 
tion and are not to be reproduced by any other agency. 

Guide to Camp Nursing $3.00 

Margaret Auld and Graceann-Ehlke 

An incorporation of both The Camp Nurse and “Suggested Policies and 
Standing Orders for Camp Nursing Services” (both published by ACA) this 
guide is based on the research data gathered from currently employed camp 
nurses in seven western states. The knowledge and technical skills in the 
area of camp nursing form the basis for this book. The 1978 revision includes 
extensive revision of the Standing Orders and updates the first aid section. 
American Camping Association, 44 p., 1978. 

Health Record Log $3.50 

This new publication provides a bound (stitched rather than stapled) log 
book with numbered pages ( 8 V 2 x 11 ), each page with space for 25 entries 
and a total of 42 entry pages. 

American Camping Association, 42 p.. 1978. 



HOW TO SERIES 


4 or 6 page monographs 


• “Composting for Pleasure and Profit” 

Sam Hambly, CCA/ACC, 1981. 

$0.75 

• “Fun and Fitness at Camp” 

Marjorie Booth, CCA/ACC, 1982. 

$ 1.00 

• “How to Promote Your Camp” 

Derek Walsh, CCA/ACC, 1981. 

$0.75 

• “Maximum Participation at the Waterfront” 

Jocelyn Palm, CCA/ACC, 1982. 

$ 1.00 

• “Organizing a Sailing Program” 

Catherine Thomas, CCA/ACC, 1982. 

$ 1.00 

• “Winter Camping Skills” 

Mors Kochanski, CCA/ACC, 1982. 

$ 1.00 

CCA/ACC Three Ring Binder 

$4.00 


Made especially to hold the above monographs, a good quality, dark green 
plastic binder is available for $4.00. This includes your choice of any two 
monographs. Not available separately. 


10 








LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT 

Camp and the Child $2.50 

A series of articles celebrating the International Year of the Child have been 
combined into a single publication: The Child and Values. The Child and the 
Earth, The Child and Emotional Growth, The Child and Play, The Child as a 
Spiritual Being, and The Whole Child. The articles include the educative 
aspects of camp experiences, value education potential in a camp setting, 
the child’s relationship to the natural world, the importance of play activities 
in camp, spiritual aspects of camp life, and all-round growth and develop¬ 
ment. 

American Camping Association, 1979. 

* Camp Counsellor’s Handbook To be determined 

Brian Blackstock and John Latimer’s 1975 practical guide for prospective 
and practicing counsellors is being revised. Publication is expected in the 
spring of 1983. 

Gage Publishing Company. 

(A) Camp Director Trains His Own Staff $ 1.50 

Catherine T. Hammett 

Suggestions for pre-camp and in-camp training. Excellent and definitive in¬ 
formation will be found most useful by camp directors. 

American Camping Association, 32 p. 

Camp, The Child’s World $2.00 

Eight articles which explore why camp must be a child’s world and how we 
can help mold this world so that we may best serve each child. Excellent for 
Counsellor training. 

American Camping Association, 32 p., 1962. 

Camper Guidance - A Basic Handbook $2.00 

Dr. Joel W. Bloom and A. Cooper Ballentine 

A must for every counsellor in every camp. 

American Camping Association, 24 p., 1971. 

Camper Guidance in the Routines of Daily Living $ 1.50 

Dr. Joel W. Bloom has written a series of articles for use as supplementary 
reading for counsellor training. 

American Camping Association, 16 p., 1965. 

Camping for American Youth, A Declaration for Action $1.50 

Kenneth Webb, Ed. 

Prepared by AC A workshop. An interpretation of camping as it relates to 
present social trends and values and toward the fulfillment of the potential of 
the camper. 

American Camping Association, 26 p., 1962. 

Camping is Education $1.50 

An extensive revision of the once very popular “Place of the Organized 
Camp in the Field of Education.” A publication which should prove to be a 
classic of camping literature. 

American Camping Association, 24 p., 1960. 

* Director’s Guide for Counsellor Training $4.00 

The Alberta Camping Association’s Education Committee developed this 
guideline for counsellor training which assists camp directors to design a pro¬ 
gram specific to his own camp, whether church, private or agency. 

Reprinted by CCA/ACC, 1980. 

(A) Guide to a C.I.T. Program $2.50 

ACA National Leadership Committee’s guide to a leader’s guide to the 
development and operation of a counsellor-in-training program in camp. 
This booklet contains suggested forms and program content. 

American Camping Association, 2nd edition, 32 p., 1974. 



Guide for Training Camp Staff $3.50 

Project STAFF 

A model of staff training designed for 16-21 year old youth from low-income 
settings, but may be adapted to any camp staff training. 

American Camping Association, 32 p., 1981. 

Informal Recreational Activities, A Leader’s Guide $7.50 

Dr. Phyllis Ford presents the basic principles of recreational leadership. The 
incorporation of theoretical principles with practical instruction makes the 
book a useful tool for a recreation leader - beginning or experienced. 

American Camping Association, 119 p., 1977. 

* Leading to Share: Sharing to Lead $4.50 

Bob Rogers 

An outline for training leaders of outdoor adventure activities containing 
both the method by which leaders should be trained and the material which 
should be presented during the training. The book concern itself with the skill 
of leadership and not with any one specific activity or sport and is therefore 
applicable to a wide variety of organizations which take groups of people into 
the out-of-doors for adventure. The facts required of the leader are 
presented in six broad areas: environmental, physiological, psychological, 
safety, sociological, and technical. 

Council of Outdoor Educators of Ontario, 38 p., 1979. 

Senior Adult Camping $5.50 

Constance H. Armstrong 

A new handbook providing guidance on philosophy, goals, administration, 
health and safety, emergency procedures, food management and other in¬ 
formation on the growing activity of camping for older adults. The author is 
currently supervisor of recreation therapy at Harbor View Medical Center in 
Seattle and, through her experience, has provided a valuable collection of 
helps available to people in the fastest growing area of organized camping 
today. 

American Camping Association, 46 p., 1979. 

MISCELLANEOUS 

Bibliography of Research in Organized Camping, Environmental 
Education, Adventure Activities and Interpretive Services $ 19.95 

Dr. Betty van der Smissen and Judy Brookhiser have compiled and edited 
this comprehensive bibliography of research in the listed fields, plus articles 
from related periodicals in those subject areas. Indexed by subject and in¬ 
stitution. this bibliography covers all research through 1980. 

American Camping Association, 300 p., 1981. 

Camp Staff Position Introductory Folders $0.25 each 

Six folders designed to provide prospective camp staff members about camp 
setting positions: 

“Introduction to career ladders and entry position in Summer Camp” 
“Camp Assistant Counsellor” 

“Camp Health Aid” 

“Camp Kitchen Aid” 

“Camp Maintenance Assistant” 

“Camp Office Assistant” 

American Camping Association, 1981. 


11 







Careers in Camping $0.50 

A folder suggesting job opportunities available in the growing field of camp¬ 
ing and how to evaluate one’s qualifications and interest in the profession. A 
well written, to-the-point publication which has value in counselling young 
men and women in careers. 

American Camping Association, revised 1979. 

Fifty Years of Resident Outdoor Education $15.95 

William M. Hammerman, editor. 

Fifty years of innovative programming in resident outdoor education are 
traced, and the evolution from the early beginnings to the present time are 
explored. The authors of the separate monographs have been involved in 
the development of outdoor education through the operation of such pro¬ 
grams themselves and through the teaching of other leaders. They analyse 
the impact that resident outdoor education has had on educational 
philosophy and practice and on the increasing problems of our threatened 
environment. 

American Camping Association, 129 p., 1980. 

Good Time Fitness for Kids: A Guide for Parents, 

Coaches and Counselors $8.65 

Thomas D. Fahey, Ed.D. 

A guide for promoting an active lifestyle for children and youth, with refer¬ 
ence to their physical, psychological and emotional growth from childhood 
through adolescence. 

New Century Publishers, Inc., 1982. 

Kids inTrouble $4.50 

Campbell Loughmiller is the father of therapeutic camping programs for his 
disturbed children, and the founder and director for more than twenty years 
of the Salesmanship Club Boys Camp near Dallas, Texas. He developed a 
program which has achieved an astounding eighty-five percent longterm 
success rate. His book details the program which he has developed: an over¬ 
view of the process; education; groupwork processes; counselor training; 
and guidelines for anyone starting a new camp to deal with disturbed 
children. 

Wildwood Press, 94 p., 1979. 

Light from a Thousand Campfires $4.50 

Edited by Kenneth B. Webb 

A treasury of camping ideas, information and experience rooted in the 
camping movement - its purposes, problems and promise for the future. 
The book contains the distilled wisdom of over 83 respected authorities in 
the field of organized camping. 

American Camping Association, 384 p., 1960. 

Tajar Tales $2.00 

Jane Shaw Ward 

Illustrated by Herman Lui Drucklieb. A fascinating story for younger children 
and amusing for all. Originally published by the YWCA and reprinted by 
ACA for camping people who love tall stories. 

American Camping Association, 36 p., revised 1967. 

‘Thirty Indian Legends of Canada $5.95 

Margaret Bemister first drew this collection together from original sources 
over 60 years ago and it is now back in print in a reset and handsomely il¬ 
lustrated edition. This is a moving introduction to the heritage of Canada’s 
native peoples, Ojibway and Iroquois, Cree and Okanagan showing their 
sense of identity with the land and its natural wonders. 

Douglas & McIntyre, 151 p., 1973. 

WINDS FROM THE WILDERNESS $7.50 

Carolyn Birmingham, Ed. 

This collection of favourite quotes by well-known authors is suitable for quiet 
times at camp or on the trail. Topics such as Leadership, Wilderness, Moun¬ 
tains, Adventure, Self-Discovery, Play, Friendship, Dignity, Solitude, Hap¬ 
piness and many more are included in this illustrated anthology. 

Canadian Outward Bound Wilderness School, 111 p., 1982. 


MUSIC 

’ Come On... Let’s Sing! $4.00 

The very popular book of songs is currently being revised by the Camping 
Association of Nova Scotia. This collection of favourite camp songs is one of 
our best sellers! 

(A) Counsellor’s Guide to Camp Singing $3.00 

Jane Tobitt 

The counsellor will be able to use this book to enhance his/her own musical 
knowledge and make the music program broader in scope and more enjoy¬ 
able for all. 

American Camping Association, 44 p., 1971. 

Sing! $1.75 

Edited by the ACA Publications Committee. This completely new edition 
replaces Let’s All Sing. There are fast songs, campfire songs, rounds and in¬ 
spirational songs. 

World Around Songs, 95 p., revised 1978. 

Old Songs and Singing Games $2.95 

Richard Chase 

A delightful collection of traditional favourites with music and lyrics; songs, 
ballads, carols, folk hymns and singing games. The music is written out, both 
in the standard notation and shaped notes; the regular verses are given, as 
are the stories behind the songs. 

Dover Publishing, Inc., 49 p., 1972. 

Tent and Trail Songs $1.75 

116 songs to supplement the ACA songbook Sing. The format is the same. 
World Around Songs, 80 p., 1966. 



NATURE 

Acclimatization: A Sensory and Conceptual Approach to 
Ecological Involvement $6.25 

Steve Van Matre 

First came identification, then collection, followed by experimentation, 
leading to exploration and observation. Acclimatization is sharing, sensing, 
awakening, understanding. . .a beginning - not an end. 

American Camping Association, 138 p., revised 1972. 

Acclimatizing: A Personal and Reflective Approach to a 

Natural Relationship $7.25 

Steve Van Matre 

Following his popular book, Acclimatization, this well-known author has 
outlined a much larger program - special walks and talks, trips and trails, 
and a whole series of exercises designed to aid either the camper or a group 
in expanding their understanding of their own natural relationship and in¬ 
volvement with the world. 

American Camping Association, 225 p., 1974. 


12 




Adventures with a Hand Lens $3.75 Practical Weather Forecasting $7.95 

Richard Headstrom Frank Mitchell-Christie 


With an ordinary magnifying glass and this book as your guide, 50 adven¬ 
tures in close observation await you. These entertaining nature studies take 
you on field trips in and around your home, calling attention to interesting 
features of dozens of familiar or overlooked plants, insects and other 
animals, and common materials. 

Dover Publications, Inc., 220 p., 1976. 

(A) Book of Nature Activities $1.00 

John F. Gardner 

This book has been prepared for the purpose of providing worthwhile ex¬ 
periences in the field of nature activities for boys and girls of elementary 
school age. They should be able to read it, with perhaps a little help, and do 
the activities that are suggested. 

Interstate Printers, 37 p., 1967. 

Eco-sketch: Ideas for Environmental Education $5.75 

Russel E. Bachert, Jr., Sandie L. Bateman. Joanne L. Harward. 

Heather J. Hastings. 

The idea-filled pages of this book are directed to leaders working with young 
people and adults in the out-of-doors. Eco-Sketch is designed to jog your 
mind and in turn stimulate development of a dynamic and challenging out¬ 
door program. A great reference for schools, camps, nature centres, 
churches, recreation departments, and environmental education centres. 

American Camping Association, 130 p., 1976. 



Edible Wild Plants $8.50 

Oliver Perry; Medsger 

Detailed, inked illustrations enable even the layman to find and recognize 
more than 150 species, and the popularly written text provides information 
on how to prepare plants for eating. Included are fruits and berries, salad 
plants and pot herbs, roots and tubers, nuts, beverage and flowering plants, 
seeds and seed pods. Plants are listed by type and species as well as by 
region. 

Collier MacMillan, 323 p., 1972. 

How to Read the Night Sky $12.50 

W.L. Kals 

Written as a new and easy way to know the stars, planets, and constellations, 
this well-illustrated guide explains, step-by-step, how to know what heaven¬ 
ly bodies are visible at what times, how and where to find them, and how to 
identify them. A very simple, clear book on identifying the night sky with the 
naked eye. 

Hardcover, Doubleday, 155 p., 1974. 

Humanizing Environmental Education (A Guide for Leading 
Nature and Human Nature Activities) $ 16.50 

Clifford E. Knapp and Joel Goodman 

A unique book, blending and combining the elements of nature education 
and humanistic education. This concept has produced unparalleled 
resources for anyone who works with people in the outdoors. Hundreds of 
activities designed to give the participant learning experiences in specific 
areas are contained in this book. All of the activities have been used success¬ 
fully in a human relations adventure camp and can readily be adapted or ad¬ 
justed to many types of programs and sites. 

American Camping Association, 252 p., 1981. 


As a former Royal Navy meteorological officer, the author’s experience ex¬ 
tends from Arctic waters to the China seas. He demonstrates clearly and 
simply how it is possible to relate the evidence around and above us to the 
factors which affect weather. Technical terms are explained; details include 
the effect of wind and clouds, how air masses determine weather, air flow, 
weather on land and sea, and making your own weather charts. A good, 
basic manual for anyone who wishes to understand and predict weather, the 
book also provides a valuable resource for anyone using weather prediction 
as a program activity. 

Musson Book Company, 96 p., 1978. 

Reading the Woods $7.95 

Vinson Brown 

Rain, snow, animal life, fire, time and man leave signs in wooded areas that 
tell a story to knowing eyes schooled in reading the woods. With the explicit 
directions found in this fascinating book, even the new “reader” can soon 
find and understand the clues left by nature and man. 

Collier MacMillan, 160 p., 1969. 


Sharing Nature with Children $8.50 

Joseph B. Cornell 

A nature awareness guidebook for educators, parents, or anyone working 
with children in the outdoors; included are suggestions on how to be a good 
nature guide and how to choose the right game for the time and place. The 
activities detailed in the book are wholesome, uncompetitive, imaginative 
games which help the child actually experience what it is like to be part of the 
natural world. 

Ananda Publications, 142 p., 1979. 


Sunship Earth $11.25 

Steve Van Matre 

The author’s third major work in the area of environmental education - his 
first book, Acclimatization, came in 1972 and the second, Acclimatizing, in 
1974. Sunship Earth unites the concepts of the first and the relationships ex¬ 
perienced in the second into a special program to provide deep understand¬ 
ing of how all the passengers on Sunship Earth can live in harmony. It is a 
hard-hitting, carefully thought-out approach, one of the most comprehen¬ 
sive environmental education programs ever developed. 

American Camping Association, 265 p., 1979. 


What on Earth $4.50 

R.O. Bale 


Tracing man’s progress from his need of the earth for existence through his 
use of it for recreation, this book provides a storehouse of inexpensive pro¬ 
jects designed to help campers better understand their environment. 


American Camping Association, 160 p., 1969. 



Charles A. Whitney 



$11.95 


This marvelous field guide to the heavens, clearly tells, explains and shows 
what is “up there”. It provides an ingenious, removable Locater Wheel (Star 
Finder) that enables one to identify every star visible to the naked eye. 


Alfred A. Knopf, Publisher, 101 p., 1981. 


You and Conservation - A Checklist for Camp Counsellors $ 1.00 

This pamphlet is intended to help the counsellor and his campers be aware 
of attitudes and simple practices which may add up to good camping and 
good conservation. It was developed by the American Camping Associa¬ 
tion’s Conservation in Camping project and financed by Lilly Endowment. 

American Camping Association, 12 p., 1971. 


13 




PHILOSOPHY 

Alternatives for Youth-at-Risk $ 1.00 

Kendall I. Lingle 

An occasional paper by the Fund for the Advancement of Camping. This 
paper provides a summation of the types of alternative programs currently in 
sponsorship and provides some comparisons and estimations of costs, suc¬ 
cess rates, and information on financing. 

FAC/ACA, 12 p., 1980. 

Camping Creates Community $ 1.50 

Dr. Peter S. Gabel 

The fundamental and essential role of camping today and tomorrow is elo¬ 
quently expressed in this most attractively designed booklet. Here is a 
thoroughly up-to-date philosophical approach to camping for today’s 
children, tomorrow’s citizens, edited by one who is concerned and involved 
in seeking ways to help make tomorrow brighter and more promising. 

American Camping Association, 20 p., 1971. 

Camping Intergrouping - A Synthesis of Theory and Action $4.75 

Paul R. Gibson 

This unique book is written to help provide camp directors and other leaders 
with ideas for bringing together and working with diverse groups of children. 
Emphasis is given to the many aspects of the camp community which pro¬ 
vide so well for the implementation of the principles of intergrouping. 
Camping Intergrouping suggests the components, steps and relevance of in¬ 
dividual and group commitment to living together peacefully and produc¬ 
tively in and beyond the camp setting. 

American Camping Association, 84 p.. 1974. 

Camping in Transition $1.50 

A report on four seminars on camping and outdoor education. The delibera¬ 
tions of 20 camping organizations and 10 branches of U.S. Federal and State 
Governments are reflected in this report. These 1964, 1965, 1966 and 1967 
meetings were sponsored by the American Camping Association in cooper¬ 
ation with the Bureau of Outdoor Recreation and others. 

American Camping Association, 27 p., 1969. 

Group Experience: The Essence of Camping $1.00 

Robert and Mary Brower 

An occasional paper by the Fund for the Advancement of Camping. Written 
by the co-owners of a summer day camp, the paper details the place of the 
group experience in camping and its resulting influence on campers. 

FAC/ACA, 9 p., 1980. 

Interpreting Camp to Parents $1.25 

Moisy Shopper 

An occasional paper by the Fund for the Advancement of Camping. The 
author provides, from his own past experience with the camping movement, 
details of the learning experiences a child encounters at camp and its conse¬ 
quent impact in terms of situations. 

FAC/ACA, 8 p., 1980. 

Is Camp Administration a Profession? $1.25 

William B. Duncan 

An occasional paper by the Fund for the Advancement of Camping. The 
author is currently the director of George Williams College Camp (Wiscon¬ 
sin) and is one of the first to take the Model A Camp Director Institute. He 
continues to participate on the staff of 20 institutes. He is well qualified to 
discuss the professional implications of the camp administrator. 

FAC/ACA, 8 p., 1981. 

(A) Modern Camp for the New Generation $1.00 

Kenneth B. Webb 

An occasional paper issued by the Fund for the Advancement of Camping. 
The author discusses camps in relation to: challenge, sense of ownership, 
new life-style, character and simplicity, spiritual yearning today, and camp’s 
greatest contribution. 

FAC/ACA, 4 p., 1979. 



Summer Camps - Security in the Midst of Change $2.50 

Kenneth B. Webb 

The author of Light from a Thousand Camp Fires and many other books 
and papers brings to leaders and parents alike the increasing relevancy of 
camping as an educational tool of great value to today’s urban and suburban 
oriented children. 

American Camping Association, 52 p., 1968. 

Uncertain Outposts $1.75 

James A. Mason 

An occasional paper issued by the Fund for the Advancement of Camping. 
The future of camping and the challenge of its past is discussed by a camp 
director of 25 years experience. 

FAC/ACA, 16 p., 1979. 

(The) Unique Mission of the Summer Camp $1.50 

C. Walton Johnson 

The American Camping Association is extremely pleased to have received 
permission from Mrs. C. Walton Johnson, to reprint this beautifully written 
monograph by the founder and director of Camp Sequoyah for Boys, 
Asheville, North Carolina. The sound philosophy of camping by which C. 
Walton Johnson lived and his strong Christian principles which governed the 
operation of his successful camp from 1923 to 1967 can serve as an inspira¬ 
tion to camp directors and counsellors everywhere. 

American Camping Association, 24 p., 1973. 

(The) Values of Camping $1.25 

Reynold E. Carlson 

A statement of the values of camping as related to camping goals, youth 
needs, current societal forces, and learning potential. Designed for use with 
board and committee personnel, as well as parents, and general public. 

FAC/ACA, 8 p.. 1975. 

Year Round Camping Through Adventure Education Programs $ 1.25 

C. Woodson Baker III 

An occasional paper by the Fund for the Advancement of Camping. The 
author is the director of Camp Holiday Trails (Virginia) which serves children 
with chronic health problems. In the paper, he discusses adventure educa¬ 
tion in definition, outdoor adventure centres, and details developing a year- 
round program. 

FAC/ACA. 8 p.. 1981. 

PROJECT REACH 

The materials developed by Project REACH deal especially with the expan¬ 
sion and development of camping with the handicapped, although they are 
applicable to every camp in many ways. They are available to the 
CCA/ACC from the American Camping Association. Project REACH is 
funded by the U.S. Department of Health, Education and Welfare and is 
located at the University of Kentucky at Lexington. Four categories are 
planned. 

CAMP MANAGEMENT SERIES 

All the books in this series are 8 V 2 x 11 and three hole punched. 

Camp Staff Manual $8.50 

Designed to be used in university courses for training camp counsellors. This 
prototype staff manual is a good resource for the director writing a manual 
for his/her camp. 

Project REACH, 75 p., 1979. 


14 


CAMP COUNSELOR AND PROGRAM SPECIALIST TRAINING 
SERIES 

Edited by Dennis A. Vinton and Elizabeth M. Farley 

The camp counsellor and program specialist program has been written to 
provide basic skills, knowledge, and behaviours needed for working in a 
camp. The training program is oriented to field application and features indi¬ 
vidualization of learning experiences. Each of the modules contains a check¬ 
list of performance objectives, a pretest, learning activities, post-test, and 
answer sheets for the tests. The objectives, learning activities, and evaluation 
methods focus on the specific duties which the camp counsellor or program 
specialist does on the job. Although the program can be used in a variety of 
ways - as a college course, institute, or workshop, or as pre-camp training - 
the emphasis is always on the practical application of learning in a camp set¬ 
ting. The booklets are bound, 8 V 2 x 11 , three-hold punched. 


1. (An) Orientation to Camping and the Camp, 119 p. $8.00 

2. Knowing the Campers, 127 p. $8.50 

3. Camp Program Planning and Leadership, 142 p. $8.50 

4. Camp Health and Safety Practices, 87 p. $6.25 

5. Dealing with Camper Behaviour, 131 p. $8.50 

6. Evaluating the Camp Experience, 145 p. $9.00 


Modules 2 and 4 deal more heavily with the handicapped camper; the other 
modules deal with generic skills common to staff working with any other 
camper clientele. 

Project REACH, 1979. 

(The) Camp Food Services Supervisor $2.50 

Gary Robb 

This publication includes general information on camps and camps for the 
handicapped and specifics of the job of the food service supervisor. It deals 
with topics from the importance of camp food to preparation and serving of 
food, maintenance of food service areas and equipment, to interaction with 
program staff and campers. There is also an annotated bibliography. 

Project REACH, 39 p., 1979. 

(The) Camp Maintenance Supervisor $3.50 

Gary Robb 

Designed to serve as a field guide to support staff and as a management aid 
to the director, this manual contains general information on camps and 
camps for the handicapped, and includes a job description for the main¬ 
tenance supervisor covering: responsibilities, relationship with other staff, 
and specifics of the job. There is an annotated bibliography as well as appen¬ 
dices for special procedures involving the supervisor. 

Project REACH, 82 p., 1979. 



(The) Camp Nurse $3.00 

Debbie Fallon and Gary Robb 

Includes general information on camps and camps for the handicapped and 
specifics of the job of camp nurse. The booklet deals with responsibilities and 
qualifications of the camp nurse, supervisory functions, communications 
with other staff, the specifics of the job, an annotated bibliography and 
appendices of forms and reports. 

Project REACH, 85 p., 1978. 


(The) Camp Secretary $2.50 

Gary Robb 

This publication includes information on camps and camps for the handicap¬ 
ped and pertinent information for anyone employed as a camp secretary. It 
discusses the major responsibilities of the job: the qualifications, the relation¬ 
ship of the secretary with other camp staff, and the specific duties with regard 
to bookkeeping, maintaining the file system, managing the office, handling 
mail, and maintaining office supplies. 

Project REACH, 37 p., 1979. 


(LA) SERIE COMMENT FAIRE 

406 p. monographs. 


“Au camp: les plaisirs de la forme” 

Marjorie Booth, CCA /ACC, 1982. 

$1.00 

“Comment organiser un programme de voile” 

Catherine Thomas, CCA/ACC, 1982. 

$1.00 

“Comment promouvir votre camp vacances” 

Derek Walsh, CCA/ACC, 1981. 

$0.75 

“(Le) Compostage pour le plaisir et le gain” 

Sam Hambly, CCA/ACC, 1981. 

$0.75 

‘Techniques de camping d’hiver” 

Mors Kochanski, CCA/ACC, 1982. 

$1.00 

“Vers l’utilisation maximale du plan d’eau du camp par 
1’evaluation des installations et des activites” 

Jocelyn Palm, CCA/ACC, 1982. 

$1.00 


Un classeur d’ACC a feuilles mobiles disponible avec un commande 
minimum de deux articles pour $4.00. 

SPORTS AND GAMES 


(The) Cooperative Sports and Games Book $9.50 

Terry Orlick 

Players of every size, shape, age and ability will delight in this lively collection 
of over one hundred new games based on the idea of cooperation, not com¬ 
petition. Included as well are examples of cooperative games played round 
the world; games designed specifically for special education classes; and 
ideas for creating an endless variety of cooperative games on one’s own. 
Wonderfully versatile, these games can be played indoors or out, in 
classrooms, on playgrounds, in swimming pools or in gymnasiums. There 
are no complicated rules, no equipment more elaborate than a ball, mat or 
net. 

Random House of Canada Limited, 129 p., 1976. 

Creative Growth Games $8.50 

Eugene Raudsepp and George P. Hough, Jr. 

The authors of this book offer a challenge to think in different ways by 
presenting seventy-five stimulating games designed to test and expand one’s 
creative powers and problem solving abilities. These games - numerical, 
verbal and spatial - are designed to increase perception and imaginative 
potential. 

The Putnam Group, 195 p., 1977. 

Games for Grownups $5.75 

Marguerite Kohl and Frederica Young 

This collection of 162 games for adults and teenagers starts with a chart tell¬ 
ing how many players and what equipment is needed; how long the game 
will take, and if it is an active or quiet game. 

Simon and Shuster, 175 p., 1951. 

(The) Handbook of Recreational Games $3.50 

Neva L. Boyd 

Eighteen categories of games - pursuit and escape, hopping and jumping, 
throwing and catching, bouncing ball, throwing at a mark, intellectual, etc. 
Rules for common and uncommon games that are played by children every¬ 
where. 

Dover Publications, Inc., 128 p., 1973. 


15 



Map and Compass Fundamentals Orienteering $11.95 

Toy Martin and Dave Lotty 

Orienteering can be described as “fun and fitness with a map and compass”. 
While fitness is important for the top orienteerers, for most the emphasis is 
on fun. This book demonstrates, not only how orienteering can be fun, but 
also how an orienteering-based approach to map reading can make the lear¬ 
ning of this skill more interesting and enjoyable. 

A.H. & A.W. Reed PTY Ltd., 79 p. 

More Creative Growth Games $6.95 

Eugene Raudsepp 

Eugene Raudsepp in the sequel to Creative Growth Games combines pro¬ 
vocative fun with daring instruction. This entire new set of 75 games and 
exercises help one discover his/her creative capacities and problem solving 
abilities. There are visual exercises to expand persistence, concentration and 
originality; fantasy games to free the images stifled in the unconscious and 
elaborate mind teasers to unleash new ways of thinking. 

Putnam Publishing Group. 201 p., 1980. 

More New Games and Playful Ideas from The New Games 
Foundation $8.95 

Edited by Andrew Fluegelman 

More New Games picks up where the best selling New Games left off, with 
rules for 60 new games, new approaches to participation and winning, 
essays on game creation and adaptation, a capsule version of New Games 
training and an expanded and updated resource guide to publications, 
organizations, and equipment. 

Doubleday, 190 p., 1981. 

(The) New Game Book $9.95 

Andrew Fluegelman, Editor 

“Play hard, play fair, nobody hurt” is the motto of New Games. This is a col¬ 
lection of games old and new and borrowed from traditional favourites - 
with a new approach. Delightfully written and illustrated with charming pic¬ 
tures the games are explained in specific and easily followed instructions. 

Doubleday, 193 p., 1977. 

(The) Second Cooperative Sports and Games Book $11.95 

Terry Orlick 

The second volume of the Cooperative Sports and Games Book is “twice 
as big and twice as much fun.” In it, Orlick introduces an entirely new round 
of over 200 active games for indoors and out, and for players of all ages, 
sizes and abilities. There are both original games and new ways to recycle 
such traditionally competitive sports as dodge ball or field hockey into fun- 
for-all challenges. There are: special pointers on teaching cooperative skills 
to teenagers and adults, a chapter on games to play with toddlers, ideas for 
making your own playground equipment. 

Random House of Canada, Limited, 267 p., 1982. 

TRIPPING 

Basic River Canoeing $5.00 

Robert E. McNair 

The complete manual of white water canoeing. Begins where flat water 
canoeing books end; it describes simply and concisely how and why the 
components of wild water, canoe, and paddle equal high adventure. 

American Camping Association, 104 p., 1969. 


* Canoe Routes of British Columbia $6.95 

Richard and Rochelle Wright 

A where-to rather than a how-to manual, this book is a comprehensive guide 
to the water courses in British Columbia. Although it is written with the 
canoeist in mind, some of the data will be useful to rafters and kayakers; 
however, the routes have been included only if some part of the route is used 
for canoeing. 

Douglas & McIntyre, 176 p., 1980. 

* Canoe Routes of Ontario $9.95 

This guide, written in cooperation with the Ontario Ministry of Natural Re¬ 
sources is a guide to well over 100 canoe routes in the province. It gives 
enough information to allow one to select a route and then directs one to 
write to the appropriate district office of the Ministry to ask for further 
literature on that route including the identification numbers of topographical 
maps, etc. also available from the Ministry. 

McClelland & Stewart, 110 p., including one large map, 1981. 

* Canoe Routes of the Yukon Territory $6.95 

Richard and Rochelle Wright 

Richard and Rochelle Wright have attempted to do for the Yukon what their 
earlier book Canoe Routes of British Columbia did for B.C. They are the 
first to admit that this book does not tell the complete story of the water 
routes of the Yukon. . . they hope the gathering process will continue for 
some time and will be reflected in future editions. 

Douglas & McIntyre, 112 p., 1980. 

* Canoe Travel Handbook $6.50 

A check list of guidelines for those planning a safe canoe trip, prepared by 
the Canoe Travel Committee of the Canadian Recreational Canoeing 
Association with the assistance of Fitness and Amateur Sport. 

46 p., 1981. 

Guide to Canoe Camping $5.50 

D. Bruce Johnstone 

From his long-time experience in camping in the canoe country of Minne¬ 
sota, Wisconsin and Canada, the author has provided a detailed handbook 
of information on canoe tripping. He includes information on planning, sug¬ 
gested trips, paddling and strokes, food and camping supplies, canoe travel¬ 
ling, portaging, and campsites and making camp. The final chapter contains 
valuable tips gleaned from his travels. An excellent manual for a leader plan¬ 
ning a canoe trip or as a resource for a camp canoe tripping program. 

American Camping Association, 64 p., 1980. 

'River Camping $14.95 

Verne Huser 

Paradoxically, as the popularity of river camping increases, it also introduces 
problems that can diminish the future enjoyment of our waterways, by 
urging responsible camping and emphasizing the prevention of the despoila- 
tion of rivers and their banks. Mr. Huser goes beyond most books on river 
running. He examines the river as a resource and then goes on to choice of 
craft, rigging, food, clothing, shelter, techniques, clean-up, safety and more. 

Douglas & McIntyre, 160 p., 1981. 

* When the Wilderness Beckons $6.95 

Catherine Ross, Debbie Hutton and Pamela Dunbar 

Three very experienced leaders of canoe tripping programs at summer 
camps have combined to write this handbook for small groups and families 
who may have never received formal instruction. There is a chapter on 
Canoeing Skills with illustrations of basic strokes; one on Planning; on Pack¬ 
ing; a well illustrated section on Portaging; one on Camp Skills and Safety; 
and Emergencies. The information and practical suggestions offered should 
guarantee a safe, comfortable experience. Now into its second printing. 

Highway Book Shop, 105 p., 1982. 


16 


WATERFRONT 

• Concise Book of Sailing $2.98 

Terry Brown and Rob Hunter 

A book for beginning and first-year dinghy sailors. It covers all the know¬ 
ledge, practical and theoretical, necessary to simplify the early days in sail. 
Apart from the advice on technique, the book also covers boat purchase, 
where to sail, knots, first aid, safety, rules of the road and boat handling; a 
useful book for people of all ages. 

Gage Publishing Company Limited, 64 p., 1977. 

Let’s Go Windsurfing $8.95 

The techniques of this fast growing sport are detailed in this manual about 
board sailing. 

Doubleday Canada Ltd. 

•Path of the Paddle $24.95 

Bill Mason 

This book covers all key areas of canoeing, equipment, basic and advanced 
paddling techniques, how to read various water conditions, anticipating and 
avoiding serious problems and much more. Using over 500 illustrations, in¬ 
cluding drawings, black and white and brilliant colour photographs. Bill 
Mason has captured the rough elegance of canoeing. A comprehensive and 
lavishly illustrated instructional guide for both novice and expert. 

Hardcover, Van Nostrand Reinhold, 160 p., 1980. 

(A) Small Boat Sailor’s Bible $5.95 

Heruey Garrett Smith 

A complete guide to buying, maintaining, and sailing small sailboats, with 
over 100 drawings and photographs. 



WINTER CAMPING 

• Concise Book of Winter Camping $2.95 

Terry Brown and Rob Hunter 

Given the right equipment and techniques, the competent camper can con¬ 
tinue to enjoy the outdoors throughout the year. This illustrated book ex¬ 
plains how to augment a summer scale or gear up to a winter standard, what 
to buy when starting from scratch, how to cope with cold, wind and snow. 

Gage Publishing Company, Limited, 63 p., 1978. 

* Ski Camping $3.95 

Ron Watters 

This book contains advice on how to keep warm and comfortable while ski¬ 
ing and camping in the backcountry. It is also about self-reliance in that back- 
country, which means being prepared with the right equipment and the right 
clothing and using good judgement. Illustrated with many black and white 
photographs, it excites one with all the delightful aspects of cross-country 
skiing and snow camping. 

Douglas & McIntyre, 154 p., 1979. 

Snowshoeing $8.95 

Gene Prater 

Recreational snowshoeing is a fast-growing economical sport that liberates 
the winter hiker from the confines of surfaced roads and cities. This book 
provides up-to-the-minute information on equipment, physical conditioning 
and techniques. 

The Mountaineers, 171 p., 1980. 


WOODSMANSHIP AND CAMPING 

(The) L.L. Bean Guide to the Outdoors $19.50 

Bill Riviere with the staff of L.L. Bean 

An authoritative and useful guide to getting on comfortably and safely in the 
woods. It tells all one needs to know about choosing and using clothing and 
footwear, weather forecasting, backpacks, sleeping bags, canoes, cross¬ 
country skis, snowshoes, knives and axes, compasses and maps. There are 
charts on everything from wind chill factors and canoe weights to ski waxes 
and comparative heat values of different kinds of woods. A matchless source 
of information on outdoor equipment. 

Hardcover, Random House, 384 p., 1981. 

’Bicycle Camping $9.95 

Diana Armstrong 

The third volume in the trio of manuals that include, River Camping and 
Ski Camping, this all-round guide will help to prepare for a bicycle camping 
trip. It covers route planning, packing, fitness, bike selection, repairs AND 
camping. It anticipates the variables of weather, road conditions, traffic and 
accidents. 

Douglas & McIntyre, 160 p., 1981. 

(The) Campcraft Book $5.50 

Catherine T. Hammett 

A revised and updated version of the original Your Own Book of Campcraft 
first published in 1950. Prepared as a guide to teenage girls and boys for their 
first camping experience, the book has been widely used as a background 
book for AC As Outdoor Living Skills course. A handy, authoritative source 
on campcraft skills, the book will be of practical value to anyone, young or 
old, who wants to go camping for the first time. 

American Camping Association, 160 p., 1980. 

’The Complete Woodsman $4.95 

Paul Provencher 

An invaluable book for the serious woodsman. The author includes more 
than 100 of his own illustrations, and gives practical instructions on how to 
make wigwams, rafts, mocassins, toboggans, emergency boats, bows and 
arrows, sleds, sun goggles and fire by friction. Also featured are instructions 
on how to tell directions by the stars, a watch, by shadows, by sun; how to 
hunt, fish and trap; how to find edible plants and how to prepare food in the 
bush; how to pack and travel in summer and winter. 

Habitex Books, 225 p., 1974. 

Emergency/Survival Handbook $3.95 

Robert E. Brown 

A hip pocket size book of emergency procedures for anyone at home, office, 
camp, boat or bush. In addition to providing information, the orange cover 
can be used as a highly visible signalling device, it is also wax impregnated to 
serve as a fire starter; the mylar centrefold can also be used for signalling or 
as a light intensifier or mirror. Comes in a waterproof pouch-pack. 

American Outdoor Safety League, 45 p., 1979. 

Home in Your Pack $3.95 

Bradford Angier 

This how-to-do-it manual details places to go, the kinds of packs and equip¬ 
ment to take, clothes to wear and pack and trail recipes. 

Collier-MacMillan, 202 p., revised 1972. 

How to Stay Alive in the Woods $3.95 

Bradford Angier 

Now in its 14th printing, this complete guide to food, shelter, and self- 
preservation that makes starvation in the wilderness next to impossible. It 
shows, in 26 clearly written, illustrated chapters, how you can find food, 
water, warmth, and shelter when you’re lost or stranded. 

Collier-MacMillan, 286 p., 1956. 


17 



• Lightweight Camping $8.95 

Michael Hatton 

“A Four Season Source Book.” This book is intended to promote the wise 
use and understanding of the most up-to-date technical skills and equipment 
available, in order to experience the outdoors. There are chapters on insula¬ 
tion and the concept of layered dressing, map and compass skills, diet and 
nutrition, emergency care, equipment and its selection, planning and route 
selection as well as an outline of the difference between a survival situation 
and a camping trip. 

Humber College Press, 193 p., 1981. 

(Le) Manuel du Coureur des Bois $6.00 

le Professeur Kirk A. Wipper 

Ce manuel etait fait pour les Ecoles Nationales des Coureurs des Bois. Les 
sujets principaux inclus sont: le mouvement “impact minimum” en camp¬ 
ing, le “leadership”, et le programme de plein-air (le randonn§ pedestre, le 
camping sauvage, la cuisine de plein-air, etc.). Le Code du Coureur de Bois, 
aussi inclus, donnera au lecteur les choses que les campeurs doivent suivre 
pour conserver notre monde naturel. 

L’Association des Camps du Canada/Canadian Camping Association, 

155 p., 1979. 

(The) New Way of the Wilderness $3.95 

Calvin Rutstrum 

Written by a veteran outdoorsman who has made annual trips by canoe, 
pack horse, and dog sled into the wilderness for nearly 50 years, this refer¬ 
ence book includes professional woodsmans experience-tested methods of 
exploring, camping, and surviving in the wilderness. Selection of equip¬ 
ment, checklists for one-day and one-month trips, backpacking afoot, canoe 
travel, pack-horse methods and equipment, orienteering, hunting for food, 
and wilderness cooking are all included. 

Collier MacMillan, 280 p., 1958. 

Outdoor Living Skills 

The Outdoor Living Skills Program is the American Camping Association’s 
internationally known program for teaching successful outdoor living based 
upon the knowledge, skills and attitudes acquired only through actual exper¬ 
ience in progressive stages. Integral parts of the program are the promotion 
of understanding and appreciation of the beauty of the natural world, the 
wise use of natural resources, the application of health and safety practices 
and a sense of achievement and fellowship. Since the entire OLS Course 
can only be taught by ACA certified OLS instructors, the usefulness of the 
following two books can only be that of reference manuals. 

Instructor’s Manual $6.25 

An outline by which a certified instructor can teach the OLS program. The 
purposes and objectives of the program are covered along with teaching 
plans for the topics in the check list. 

American Camping Association, 81 p., 1979. 

Guide for the Director of OLS Instructors $4.00 

Serves as a reference tool: what to do, when to do it, and is a stimulus in 
developing the content and methods to be used in an instructor workshop. 

American Camping Association, 12 p., 1980. 

* Woodsmanship Leaders' Guide $6.00 

Professor Kirk A. Wipper 

An outgrowth of the CCA/ACC National Woodsmanship Leaders’ 
Schools, this 81/2 x 11, three hold punched manual contains a wealth of 
outdoor educational and recreational information. Three major components 
have been included: an exploration of the land.ethic; a compendium of ideas 
on the theme of leadership; and finally, a set of practical materials on land 
pursuits. As well as providing up-to-date treatment of camping, hiking, 
oack-packing and navigational skills for camp leaders it presents the Woods¬ 
man’s Code a list of thirty-three points anyone using the wilderness should 
obey in order to make a minimum impact there. This publication was made 
possible by a contribution from Fitness and Amateur Sport, Government of 
Canada. 

Canadian Camping Association/Association des Camps du Canada, 

155 p., 1979. 


Let’s all head to Toronto for the 

C.C.A’s 1st International 

a 

Camping Congress 



JANUARY 26-29, 1983 
SHERATON CENTRE, TORONTO 
Keynote Speakers Registration 

Sir Edmund Hillary—New Zealand Full—$124 (Cdn.) 

Dr. Alec Dickson—Great Britain Late—$160 after 12/20/82 

Dr. Leo Buscagalia—United States Hotel Rate—$85/day—single, double, triple 

or quad, occupancy 
Kindred Croup Meetings 

• Canadian Camping Association Board • Private Christian Science Camps 

• Canadian Recreational Canoeing Assoc. • Christian Camping International 

• Brethren Assemblies Camps • Day Camps 

• Outdoor Ed./Rec. University Students • YMCA Camps 


Charles Kujawa, U.S.A. 

Kirk Wipper, Canada 
Bud Weiner, U.S.A. 

Ron Johnstone, Canada 
Bill Mason, Canada 
Steve Van Matre, U.S.A. 

John Pearson, U.S.A. 

Medley Dimock, Canada 
Bruno Morawetz, Canada 
Prof. Shinshiro Ebashi, Japan 
Dr. Betty van dcr Smissen, U.S.A. 


Featured Speakers Include: 

Jocelyn Palm, Canada 
Nelson Wietcrs, U.S.A. 

Jack Pcarse, Canada 
and the Boys’ Camp Band 
Capt. Kohli, India 
Peter Bentley, Jamaica 
John Wilkinson, Canada 
Bruce Werber, U.S.A. 
Clifford Knapp, U.S.A. 

Ken Low, Canada 
Jan Janies, Canada 


Program and Registration Forms Available from: 


Canadian camping 
association 



sm 


association des 
camps du Canada 


SUITE 2. 1806 AVENUE ROAD • TORONTO. ONTARIO M5M 3Z1 TELEPHONE: (416) 781-4717 


18 
























































































10 

12 

12 

13 

14 

4 

7 

16 

17 

5 

17 

4 

5 

7 

11 

11 

33 

11 

15 

15 

10 

10 

10 

10 

10 

10 

7 

7 

7 

15 

15 

9 

15 

15 

10 

7 

14 

5 

5 

5 

5 

5 

5 

5 

7 

7 

11 

17 

4 

11 

14 

11 

14 

14 

11 

3 

7 


TITLE INDEX 


Title 

Accident Report Form 

Acclimatization 

Acclimatizing 

Adventures with a Hand Lens 
Alternatives for Youth-at-Risk 
Au camp: les plaisirs de la forme 

Basic Camp Management 
Basic River Canoeing 
Bean (L.L.) Guide to Outdoors 
Bibliography of Research 
Bicycle Camping 
Book of Arts and Crafts 
Book of Nature Activities 

Camp Admin. - Course Outline 
Camp and the Child 
Camp Counsellor’s Handbook 
Camp Dir. Educ. Currie. Guide 
Camp Dir. Trains His Own Staff 
Camp Food Service Supervisor 
Camp Health and Safety Prac. 

Camp Health Cards/Forms 
Health Exam. Card (Boy’s) 

Health Exam. Card (Girl’s) 

Health Exam. Form (General) 

Health Record Card 
Health Record Form 
Camp Management 
Technical Info. Papers 
Interview Guidelines 
Tip No. 9 The Camp Staff Applicant 
Tip No. 10 The Camp Director 
Camp Maintenance Supervisor 
Camp Nurse 
Camp Program Ideas 
Camp Prog. Planning/Leadership 
Camp Secretary 
Camp Staff Application Form 
Camp Staff Job Descriptions 
Camp Staff Manual 
Camp Staff Position Folders 
Camp Assist. Counsellor 
Camp Health Aid 
Camp Kitchen Aid 
Camp Maintenance Assistant 
Camp Office Assistant 
Introduction to Career Ladders 
Camp Standards with Interps. 

Camp Standards - Condensed 
Camp - the Child’s World 
Campcraft Book 

Camper Guidance - Counsel. Handbk 
Camp Guidance - Daily Routines 
Camping Creates Community 
Camping for American Youth 
Camping Intergrouping 
Camping in Transition 
Camping is Education 
Camping Strategies in the 80’s 
Camps: Their Planning & Manag. 

Canoe Routes of B.C. 

Canoe Routes of Ontario 
Canoe Routes of the Yukon 
Canoe Travel Handbook 
Careers in Camping 


Category 

Price 

Page 

Title 

Category 

Price 

HSERV 

$0.25 





NATURE 

6.25 

8 

Church Family Camps & Conf. 

CH AFF 

3.55 

NATURE 

7.25 

12 

Come On. . . Let’s Sing 

MUSIC 

4.00 

NATURE 

3.75 

4 

Comment organiser prog, de voile 

SERIE 

1.00 

PHILOS 

1.00 

15 

Comment promouvir votre camp 



SERIE 

1.00 


vacances 

SERIE 

0.75 



9 

Complete How-To Book of Indian 



C ADMIN 

8.50 


Craft 

CRAFT 

8.25 

TRIPPG 

5.00 

17 

Complete Woodsman 

WDSMNS 

4.95 

WDSMNS 

19.50 

15 

Compostage pour plaisir 

SERIE 

0.75 

MISCEL 

19.95 

10 

Composting for Pleasure 

HOW TO 

0.75 

WDSMNS 

9.95 

9 

Concise Book of Knots 

GN PRO 

2.95 

CRAFTS 

4.50 

17 

Concise Book of Sailing 

WIT- 

2.95 

NATURE 

1.00 

17 

Concise Book of Winter Camping 

WINTER 

2.95 



4 

Conservation Activities 

GN PRO 

3.00 

C ADMIN 

1.25 

7 

Conservation of the Camp Site 

C ADMIN 

2.00 

LD DEV 

2.50 

8 

Cookery for Kids, Kamp n’ Kicks 

COOKBK 

4.00 

LD DEV 

TBA 

8 

Cookout Manual 

COOKBK 

3.00 

C ADMIN 

7.00 

15 

Cooperative Sports & Games 

SPORTS 

9.50 

LD DEV 

1.50 

12 

Counselor’s Guide to Camp Singing 

MUSIC 

3.00 

PROJ R 

2.50 

9 

Cow’s Tails and Cobras 

SPORTS 

10.00 

PROJR 

6.25 

15 

Creative Growth Games 

SPORTS 

8.50 

HSERV 







0.20 

3 

Day Camp Program Book 

C ADMIN 

$18.80 


0.20 

15 

Dealing with Camper Behavior 

PROJR 

8.50 


0.20 

11 

Dir. Guide for Couns. Training 

LD DEV 

4.00 


0.20 

4 

Drums, Tom-Toms and Rattles 

CRAFTS 

4.50 


0.20 





C ADMIN 


13 

Eco-sketch 

NATURE 

5.75 



13 

Edible Wild Plants 

NATURE 

8.50 



6 

Emergency/Survival Handbook 

WDSMNS 

3.95 


0.50 

15 

Evaluating The Camp Experience 

PROJ R 

9.00 


0.50 





PROJR 

3.50 

12 

Fifty Years of Resident Outdoor Ed. 

MISCEL 

15.95 

PROJR 

3.00 

4 

Fun and Fitness at Camp 

HOW TO 

1.00 

GN PRO 

7.50 

7 

Fundamentals of Day Camping 

C ADMIN 

14.25 

PROJR 

8.50 





PROJ R 

2.50 

15 

Games for Grownups 

SPORTS 

5.75 

HSERV 

0.20 

3 

God/Man/Land: Progs, for Camps 

CH AFF 

7.25 

C ADMIN 

1.25 

5 

Good Time Fitness for Kids 

MISCEL 

8.65 

PROJR 

8.50 

10 

Good Times Around the Campfire 

GN PRO 

3.00 

MISCEL 


14 

Group Exp: The Essence of Camping 

PHILOS 

1.00 


0.25 

18 

Guide for Dir. OLS Instructors 

WDSMNS 

4.00 


0.25 

4 

Guide for Training Camp Staff 

LD DEV 

3.50 


0.25 

11 

Guide to a CIT Program 

LD DEV 

2.50 


0.25 

10 

Guide to Camp Nursing 

HSERV 

3.00 


0.25 

16 

Guide to Canoe Camping 

TRIPPG 

5.50 


0.25 

16 

Guidelines for Dir. Ecol Wkshp 

LD DEV 

3.50 

C ADMIN 

9.25 





C ADMIN 

1.50 

15 

Handbook of Recreational Games 

SPORTS 

3.50 

LD DEV 

2.00 

10 

Health Record Log 

HSERV 

3.50 

WDSMNS 

5.50 

17 

Home in Your Pack 

WDSMNS 

3.95 

LD DEV 

2.00 

10 

How To Promote Your Camp 

HOW TO 

0.75 

LD DEV 

1.50 

13 

How to Read the Night Sky 

NATURE 

12.50 

PHILOS 

1.50 

17 

How to Stay Alive in the Woods 

WDSMNS 

3.95 

LD DEV 

1.50 

13 

Humanizing Environmental Education 

NATURE 

16.50 

PHILOS 

4.75 





PHILOS 

1.50 

4 

Indian How Book 

CRAFTS 

5.75 

LD DEV 

1.50 

11 

Informal Recreational Activities 

LD DEV 

7.50 

C ADMIN 

6.75 

14 

Interpreting Camp to Parents 

PHILOS 

1.25 

C ADMIN 

24.95 

5 

Is Camp Administration a Profession 

PHILOS 

1.25 

TRIPPG 

6.95 





TRIPPG 

9.95 

12 

Kids in Trouble 

MISCEL 

4.50 

TRIPPG 

6.95 

8 

Kinhaven Cookbook 

COOKBK 

10.00 

TRIPPG 

6.50 

8 

Kitchen Makes the Camp Go ’Round 

COOKBK 

5.00 

MISCEL 

0.50 

15 

Knowing the Campers 

PROJ R 

8.50 


19 




11 

6 

8 

12 

6 

18 

5 

4 

14 

16 

16 

3 

9 

16 

18 

8 

5 

4 

15 

4 

7 

6 

17 

13 

10 

13 

16 

5 

11 

5 

8 


Title 


Category Price 


Category Price Page Title 


Leading to Share. . . 

LD DEV 

$4.50 

8 

Short Term Camping Worksheet 

C ADMIN 

0.50 

Let’s Go Windsurfing 

WFT 

8.95 

12 

Sing! 

MUSIC 

1.75 

Let’s Teach Bible Games 

CH AFF 

3.30 

17 

Small Boat Sailor’s Bible 

WFT 

5.95 

Light from 1000 Campfires 

MISCEL 

4.50 

17 

Snowshoeing 

WINTER 

8.95 

Lightweight Camping 

WDSMNS 

8.95 

10 

Spotlight on Drama 

GN PRO 

2.00 




14 

Summer Camp, Security in Midst 

PHILOS 

2.50 

Manuel du coureur des bois (Le) 

WDSMNS 

6.00 

13 

Sunship Earth 

NATURE 

11.25 

Map and Compass Fundamentals 

SPORTS 

11.95 





Maximum Participation at Waterfront 

HOW TO 

1.00 

12 

Tajar Tales 

MISCEL 

2.00 

Modern Camp for a New Generation 

PHILOS 

1.00 

4 

Techniques de camping d’hiver 

SERIE 

1.00 

More Creative Growth Games 

SPORTS 

6.95 

12 

Tent and Trail Songs 

MUSIC 

1.75 

More New Games 

SPORTS 

8.95 

12 

Thirty Indian Legends 

MISCEL 

5.95 




4 

Tips and Tricks in Outdoor Ed. 

GN PRO 

9.00 

National Day Camp Proceedings 

C ADMIN 

7.25 





Nature Crafts 

CRAFTS 

14.50 

14 

Uncertain Outposts 

PHILOS 

1.75 

New Games Book 

SPORTS 

9.95 

14 

Unique Mission of Summer Camps 

PHILOS 

1.50 

New Way of the Wilderness 

WDSMNS 

3.95 

8 

Use of Res. Camp for School Progs. 

C ADMIN 

1.75 

Object Lessons for Child Worship 

CH AFF 

3.80 

14 

Values of Camping 

PHILOS 

1.25 

Old Songs and Singing Games 

MUSIC 

2.95 

4 

Vers I’util. du plan d’eau . . . 

SERIE 

1.00 

Organizing a Sailing Program 

HOW TO 

1.00 





Orientation To Camping & Camp 

PROJR 

8.00 

3 

Wanapitei Trippers Cookbook 

COOKBK 

5.95 

Outdoor Education Equipment 

GN PRO 

11.00 

9 

Weaving with Reeds and Fibres 

CRAFTS 

3.95 

Outdoor Education - Guidelines. . . 

C ADMIN 

1.00 

9 

Well-fed Backpacker 

COOKBK 

5.25 

Outdoor Living Skills Manual 

WDSMNS 

6.25 

13 

What on Earth 

NATURE 

4.50 




16 

When the Wilderness Beckons 

TRIPPG 

6.95 

Path of the Paddle 

WFT 

24.95 

13 

Whitney Star Finder 

NATURE 

11.95 

Practical Weather Forecasting 

NATURE 

7.95 

9 

Whittling and Woodcarving 

CRAFTS 

5.75 




5 

Winds from the Wilderness 

MISCEL 

7.50 

Raindrops Keep Falling on Tent 

GN PRO 

3.50 

4 

Winter Camping Skills 

HOW TO 

1.00 

Reading the Woods 

NATURE 

7.95 

18 

Woodsmanship Leaders’ Guide 

WDSMNS 

6.00 

River Camping 

TR1PPG 

14.95 

10 

Woodsmoke and Campfire 

GN PRO 

2.00 




3 

Worship in Youth & Child Groups 

CH AFF 

4.50 

•Second Co-op. Sports & Games 

SPORTS 

$11.95 





Senior Adult Camping 

LD DEV 

5.50 

5 

Year-Round Camp thru Adven. 

PHILOS 

1.25 

Sharing Nature with Children 

NATURE 

8.50 

13 

You and Conservation 

NATURE 

1.00 

Short Term Camping Guide 

C ADMIN 

1.50 

8 

Your Camp and the Handicapped 

C ADMIN 

1.25 


Graphics: Beth Moon 
Layout: Judy Richards 
Wendy Wren 

Typesetting: I&T Type Shoppe 


20 




Association des camps du Canada 
1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 
416-781-4717 

EN MAJUSCULES S.V.P. 

Nom:_ 

Adresse: _ 

Ville:_ Province:. 


SERVICE DE LIBRAIRIE 
BON DE COMMANDE 


Telephone:. 


Code postal:. 


NO. 


TITRE 


RESERVE 

PRIX TOTAL AU BUREAU 


FRAIS D’EXPEDITION: 

$20.00 ou moins doit etre payee en avant avec $2.00 inclus pour 
l’expedier. 

$20.01 a $50.00 - les frais de $3.00 sont ajoutes a la facture. 

Plus de $50.00 - les frais sont calcules et ajoutes. 

CONDITIONS: 

Tous les dettes actives sont payable apres 30 jours. Une surcharge par 
mois sera ajoutee aux comptes en souffrance. Tous les prix peuvent 
£tre modifies sans preavis. 


Sous-total _ 

Frais d’expedition _ 

TOTAL_ Montant inclus. 

Signature_ 

SVP facturez a_ 

Commandeno. _ 


Association des camps du Canada 
1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 
416-781-4717 

EN MAJUSCULES S.V.P. 

Nom:_ 

Adresse: _ 

Ville:_Province:. 


SERVICE DE LIBRAIRIE 
BON DE COMMANDE 


Telephone: 


Code postal:. 


NO. 


TITRE 


RESERVE 

PRIX TOTAL AU BUREAU 


FRAIS D’EXPEDITION: 

$20.00 ou moins doit etre payee en avant avec $2.00 inclus pour 
l’expedier. 

$20.01 a $50.00 - les frais de $3.00 sont ajoutes a la facture. 

Plus de $50.00 - les frais sont calcules et ajoutes. 

CONDITIONS: 

Tous les dettes actives sont payable apres 30 jours. Une surcharge par 
mois sera ajoutee aux comptes en souffrance. Tous les prix peuvent 
£tre modifies sans preavis. 


Sous-total _ 

Frais d’expedition _ 

TOTAI_Montant inclus. 

Signature_ 

SVP facturez a _ 

Commandeno. __ 


21 










































PUBLICATION SERVICE 
ORDER FORM 


Canadian Camping Association 
1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 
416-781-4717 

PLEASE PRINT 

Name:._ Telephone: 

Address:_ 

City /Town:_ Province:_ Postal Code: 


NO. 


TITLE 


PRICE TOTAL OFFICE USE 


SHIPPING RATES: 

Sub-Total 



$20.00 or less, order must be Prepaid with $2.00 included for shipping. 

Shipping 



$20.01 - $50.00, order may be billed. Shipping rate will be $3.00. 

TOTAL 

Prepaid 


More than $50.00 - shipping rate will be determined per order. 

Signature 



TERMS: 

Payment due within 30 days of invoice date. Interest will be charged 
on overdue accounts. All prices are subject to change without notice. 

Please invoice 



Quote Purchase Order No. 







Canadian Camping Association 
1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 
416-781-4717 

PLEASE PRINT 

Name:__ 

Address: _ 

City /Town:_ 


PUBLICATION SERVICE 
ORDER FORM 


Telephone: 


Province:. 


Postal Code:. 


NO. 


TITLE 


PRICE 


TOTAL OFFICE USE 


SHIPPING RATES: 

$20.00 or less, order must be Prepaid with $2.00 included for shipping. 
$20.01 - $50.00, order may be billed. Shipping rate will be $3.00. 
More than $50.00 - shipping rate will be determined per order. 

TERMS: 

Payment due within 30 days of invoice date. Interest will be charged 
on overdue accounts. All prices are subject to change without notice. 


Sub-Total_ 

Shipping_ 

TOTAL-Prepaid. 

Signature___ 

Please invoice_ 

Quote Purchase Order No._ 


22 



















































Canadian Camping Association 
1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 
416-781-4717 

PLEASE PRINT 

Name:_ 

Address: __ 

City/Town:_ 


PUBLICATION SERVICE 
ORDER FORM 


Telephone: 


Province:. 


Postal Code: 


NO. 


TITLE 


PRICE TOTAL OFFICE USE 


SHIPPING RATES: 

Sub-Total 


$20.00 or less, order must be Prepaid with $2.00 included for shipping. 

Shipping 


$20.01 - $50.00, order may be billed. Shipping rate will be $3.00. 

TOTAL 

Prepaid 

More than $50.00 - shipping rate will be determined per order. 

Signature 


TERMS: 

Please invoice 


Payment due within 30 days of invoice date. Interest will be charged 
on overdue accounts. All prices are subject to change without notice. 

Quote Purchase Order No. 





Canadian Camping Association 
1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 
416-781-4717 

PLEASE PRINT 

Name:_ 

Address: _ 

City/Town:_ 


PUBLICATION SERVICE 
ORDER FORM 


Telephone: 


Province:. 


Postal Code:. 


NO. 


TITLE 


PRICE TOTAL OFFICE USE 


SHIPPING RATES: 

$20.00 or less, order must be Prepaid with $2.00 included for shipping. 
$20.01 - $50.00, order may be billed. Shipping rate will be $3.00. 
More than $50.00 - shipping rate will be determined per order. 

TERMS: 

Payment due within 30 days of invoice date. Interest will be charged 
on overdue accounts. All prices are subject to change without notice. 


Sub-Total__ 

Shipping_ 

TOTAL_ Prepaid. 

Signature_ 

Please invoice_ 

Quote Purchase Order No_ 


23 














































CINCINNATI 


Four Great 
Reasons to 
Attend 


1 


125 

Plus 

Educational 

Sessions 


2 Six d |l Believe A I Job 

Seminars;' J River Mart 

100 Plus iBoat i . 
Exhibits • Cruise 


Believe 
River 
Boat 
Cruise 


FEBRUARY 28-MARCH 5, 1983 

“For registration and program 
details, watch for your fall ACA 
convention mailing and Camp¬ 
ing Magazine or contact Ameri¬ 
can Camping Association, 

Bradford Woods, Martinsville, 

IN 46151-7902. Phone: (317) 

342-8456. 




A c ' 










to# 






\° x 


cj 


o* 






O*' 




«V' 






nnnnnn 

[AMPING-ORENINGNEWWORLDsY 

mi 


ACA’s ’83 Convention City 


24 















