
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION L'ASSOCIATION DES 
OF THE CANADIAN CAMPS DU CANADA - 

CAMPING ASSOCIATION PUBLICATION OFFICIELLE 




LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


As a staff member at a summer camp located in 
the northwest corner of the province, I must 
attend all the pre-camp sessions. In our im¬ 
provement sessions, however, a certain propo¬ 
sal of mine keeps being suppressed. 

My proposal is simple. Since we allow boys and 
girls to eat together and have their activities 
(orientation, archery, swimming, scavenger 
hunts etc.) with one another, why shouldn’t we 
allow them to sleep in the same dorms, cabins 
or tents? 

Terms such as "Boys” and "Girls” should be 
replaced with “east” and "west” or “one" and 
“two”. 

I’m sure that once the children were briefed 
about “respecting the other person” that trouble 
would be superficial and minimal. 

The children would undoubtedly have no trouble 
with this set-up, although parents and other 
higher-ups certainly seem to (camp administra¬ 
tors etc.). 

How long will we continue to subject children to 
our hang-ups? I believe that with our own little 
quirks removed, that the children would grow up 
with fewer anxieties and hang-ups and certainly 
with healthier minds towards male and female 
differences. 

I am happy to say that my Director may be con¬ 
sidering my proposal on a trial basis soon. 

H.R., Sudbury, Ontario. 

Hundreds of studies indicate that with the right 
planning, awareness and sensitivity of the Direc¬ 
tor and Staff, the situation you propose is a very 
beneficial one. Children exposed to communal 
washrooms and dorms invariably grow up with 
fewer hang-ups and healthier attitudes toward 
their own bodies and the bodies of others. Unfor¬ 
tunately, you are years ahead of your time and I 
think you are describing an ’’ideal” living en¬ 
vironment in camps which will take years to 
come to fruition; please don’t hold your breath! 


You have covered some excellent topics in 
CANADIAN CAMPING but I have some real 
concerns about the environment - most notably 
with regard to acid rain. How is it affecting our 
camping community in Canada? Are there strat¬ 
egies we can implement to make “acid rain" an 
integral part of our camp programme? 

S.H., Malton, Ontario 

Please stay tuned to our next issue - we’ll try to 
cover it all. Thanks for writing. 


Our committee has read your Spring ’83 CANA¬ 
DIAN CAMPING magazine and I am happy to 
report a four out of five star review. We could find 
only one flaw, the cover photo. 

The committee could find but only three explana¬ 
tions for it 

1. The child is (a) going to examine it closer 

(b) going to smell it 

(c) going to taste it 

(d) asleep. 

2. The child is certainly a mannequin since any 
butterfly would not stand still on a hand for 
any great long period of time and that the 
butterfly is (a) taking a closer look 

(b) smelling it 

(c) doing something very natural 

(d) dead 

OR 

3. That the butterfly is part of “Cheryl Caldwell’s 
All Butterfly Flying Circus”, is completely 
trained, and we’re wondering when the next 
time the circus was coming to the Gardens? 

H.S, Etobicoke, Ontario 


The opportunity to comment on your editorial 
“Beer in the Ballparks - Camps are Next” is 
most welcome as we take exception with most 
of the statements made and values implied in 
this article. 


We feel that camp is a place where we can 
experience the simple pleasures of getting 
closer to nature and of learning more about 
God. Camp should be someplace where we can 
get away from the pressures of society and from 
those things in society that we have become 
dependent on such as T.V. and radio. 

None of us are against beer or liquor but as with 
many other things in life we feel that there is a 
time and place for everything. We think that for 
camps it is quite inappropriate that alcoholic 
beverages should be made available. At our 
camp, the staff is in charge of other people’s 
children 24 hours a day, seven days a week. It is 
a position that entails great responsibility and 
trust. No camp staff member can afford to do 
anything which will reduce their ability to 
respond to any emergency or other situations 
requiring quick action, tact and good sense at 
any time of the day or night It is because camp is 
so demanding that we feel the staff should 
neither be permitted to drink on site nor return to 
the site in an even mildly intoxicated condition. 
Only an immature and self-centered staff mem¬ 
ber would be drinking behind your back and it is 
precisely that staff member who should not be 
on staff in the first place. 

We agree that camp staff are under a great deal 
of pressure and need to relax, but we resent the 
suggestion that drinking is the only way to relax. 
We feel that our staff can and have had very 
relaxing and enjoyable evenings without touch¬ 
ing a drop of alcohol. Campers can be taught by 
example of the staff, that people can have a 
great time without drinking and we feel that this 
would be a much more worthwhile lesson. 
Robert T. Banks 

Member of the Board of Session of 
Mountjoy United Church 
Timmins, Ontario. 


CONTENTS 

Autumn 1983 


Vol. 35, No. 3 

5 The Camping Advisor 

6 The Cult Crisis 

by the Council on Mind Abuse 

8 NBCA Spring Happenings 

by Ian Fowler 

9 Summer Camps: An Opportunity for Personal Growth 

by Walter Tose 

10 

12 

13 

14 

Christian and Church Camping In Perspective 
by John Vissers 

BC Leadership Camp 
by Dave Adair 

Mary Roy - A Tribute 
by Jack Pearse 

National Camping Day 
by Mamie Ellis 



The programs of this association are financially 
supported by 


Cover Photo: Nicholas Joseph 


Government of Canada Gouvernement du Canada 
Fitness and Amateur Sport Condition physique et Sport amateur 


2 


EDITORIAL 


Cults + Camps = 


♦ ♦ 


Twelve-year-old John Yarbough went to camp this summer like hundreds 
of thousands of twelve-year-olds across North America. And like most of 
those twelve-year-olds, John was somewhat rebellious, refusing to do 
some of the chores Director William Lewis demanded of all sixty-seven 
campers at his camp: chopping wood, hauling water and digging dirt to 
repair a road. And even when John DID some of his chores, he didn’t have 
the "right attitude", according to Director Lewis. For this reason, sometime 
over the weekend of July 3,1983, John Yarbough was taken to one of the 
camp’s main buildings where his neck and wrists were locked into the 
camp's stocks and, hunched over, he was beaten thirty times on his behind 
with a stigk the size of a broom handle. John Yarbough was beaten to death! 
An autopsy later revealed that at least one of the many blows struck his 
spine. An immediate court order prompted the police to remove ail sixty-six 
children from the House of Judah camp; a charge of manslaughter has been 
laid. 

Director William Lewis, referring to himself as a "prophet”, maintains the 
Yarbough incident was an act of God and he cited two justifications for the 
boy’s death: the first is that "children die every day” and the second he finds 
in the Bible, in Deuteronomy 21:18-21, which says: "If a man has a stubborn 
and rebellious son who will not obey the voice of his father or the voice of his 
mother, and though they chastise him, will not give heed to them... then all 
the men of the city shall stone him to death with stones; so you shall purge 
the evil from your midst; and all Israel shall hear, and fear.” According to 
Lewis, punishment at the House of Judah camp was rigorous and 
systematic. 

The tragedy of this story goes far beyond the death of an innocent 
twelve-year-old. It lies in North American society’s inability to deal 
effectively with the cult problem. Hundreds of thousands of families are 
grieving right now over the loss of a family member - the physical loss 
where someone has actually been absconded and taken to a “retreat” (as in 
the “youth cults”) or the psychological loss where someone has lost the 
ability to think critically and rationally due to manipulation and programming 
(as in the "therapy cults”). 

If you have never had anything to do with cults or any association with a 
friend who has, you probably feel it is an insignificant social problem that 
would only affect a few "weak” individuals who were searching for some¬ 
thing anyway. This is a grave misconception - anyone is vulnerable to cult 
indoctrination at any given time; in fact, if you believe you couldn't be 
indoctrinated into a cult, you are actually more vulnerable than the person 
who understands his own vulnerability! Journalists constitute a professional 
group which is very easily recruited; many think they will infiltrate the 
moonies, EST, Therafields or Hare Krisna and get the “inside” story - in 
most cases, they become cult members who very soon are willing to 
dedicate their income, material possessions and indeed their lives to serve 
their “spiritual master”. While the greatest age for recruitment falls between 
16 and 35, certainly no person or no age group is immune; as a matter of fact 
Dr. John G. Clark, associate professor of psychiatry at Harvard University 


says “the safest people seem to be those who are mentally ill.’’ 

Our society correctly believes that the human mind is sacred; we do 
everything possible as leaders to provide a fertile soil in which to nourish 
growing minds. We provide challenging experiences, campfires, canoe 
trips, confrontations with our natural environment and fellowship in our 
natural environment. We try to teach our youngsters HOW to think, not 
merely WHAT to think; we observe this process in initiative tasks or group 
discussions or new games. When someone we care strongly about makes 
a wrong decision, we hope he’ll learn from that experience because part of 
growing and believing in free choice is allowing people the leeway to make 
mistakes and learn from them. But what free choice did twelve-year-old 
John Yarbough have and what opportunity did he have to learn from his 
mistake? If a two year old is blindly venturing toward a street bustling with 
traffic, one does not stop and think “well, I've taught him how to think and I 
hope he makes it.” One dashes and rescues the child! But what happens to 
a 15 year old or a 28 year old who blindly ventures through a crowded mall 
and someone asks him to come for a free dinner or “join a group of friends 
who believe in love and spirituality”? It’s a very fine line, but we must dash to 
rescue that person also, because if that “free” dinner or “free” meeting is 
attended, it will probably be the last exhibition of “free choice” that person 
might ever make! The sophistication of mind-programming techniques is 
very advanced - from countdown hypnotic trances to love-bombing to 
protein deficiency to sensory deprivation to chanting etc.; enough psycho¬ 
logical studies reveal even the most active, curious, idealistic, inquisitive 
mind will become passive, unquestionning, irrational, dispirited, with that 
characteristic "zombie-like” appearance! 

To the cult leader, money is everything; to that end, recruitment of new 
members is essential because each member represents thousands of 
dollars (sometimes weekly). How long will it take for legislation to help 
protect innocent, idealistic, well-intentioned adults and youths from being 
exploited and used to serve someone’s selfish vision of power or wealth or 
fame? If it were only physical kidnapping and physical abuse (as in the 
House of Judah camp) we could turn to current criminal legislation and 
close the place down, as did happen. But how do we handle the subtleties of 
cults through psychological kidnapping and psychological abuse? We 
must feel sympathy for the 900+ people in Jonestown, Guyana who 
committed mass suicide with the Rev. Jimmy Jones. Those people were not 
poor, uneducated, illiterate individuals at all - they represented as much a 
cross section of our culture as any random group of 1,000 people would. 
Our shock and anger should prompt us to read, investigate, explore, ask 
questions and become cognizant of the incredible danger and abuse being 
perpetrated on hundreds of thousands of "innocent” victims through cult 
recruitment and indoctrination. 

Remember, no one consciously wakes up in the morning saying “Today I 
think I’ll join a cult and have my mind altered.” One must be recruited, and 
our legislative inability to defend against these co-ercive and manipulative 
forces is ridiculously insufficient 


Editorial Policy 

Jay Haddad, Editor 

The ideas expressed in the Editorial are 
those of the Editorial Committee and not 
necessarily those of the Canadian Camp¬ 
ing Association/Association des Camps 
du Canada. The views are expressed to 
provide stimulation and comment. We in¬ 
vite you to respond in "Letters to the 
Editor" to Canadian Camping, 1806 
Avenue Road, Suite 2, Toronto, Ontario 
M5M 3Z1. 


Editorial Office is located at the CCA/ACC 
Office, 1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, Toronto, 

Ontario M5M 3Z1. 

Canadian Camping is an official publication of the Canadian Camping Association/Association des 
Camps du Canada. Canadian Camping (ISSN 008-3119) is published quarterly. CCA/ACC member¬ 
ship includes a subscription; non-member subscriptions in Canada $6.00 a year or $15.00 - 3 years. 
Send address changes to CCA/ACC, 1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2, Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1. 
Material in Canadian Camping may not be reproduced in any form, without written permission of the 
editor. Copyright 1983 Canadian Camping Association/Association des Camps du Canada. 


3 



EDITORIAL 

Cultes + camps... une equation 
qui peut signifier la mort! 

Comme tant d’autres de son age partout en Amerique du Nord, spirituellement. Nous leurfaisons prof iter d'experiences stimulantes, 
John Yarbough, un gargon de 12 ans, est alie en colonie de nous organisonsdesfeuxde camp, des excursions encanot, nous 
vacances cet ete. Aussi, comme la plupart des enfants de cet age, leur faisonsdecouvrir la pleine nature etleurapprenons a vivre avec 
John etait rebelle. II refusait d’accomplir certains travaux que le leur semblables dans cet environnement. Nous leur enseignons 
directeur du camp, William Lewis demandait k ses soixante-sept non seulement k quoi penser mais aussi comment penser. Nous 
campeursd’executer,telsquecouperdubois,pomperreau,reparer mettons ensuite cette technique a I’essai en leur laissant prendre 
un chemin cahoteux. Aux dires de Lewis, John se cantonnait dans des initiatives dans des discussions degroupeet dans denouveaux 
samauvaise attitude, meme lorsqu’ilaccomplissaitcertainestaches. jeux. Lorsqu’un etre aime prend une mauvaise decision, nous 
Aussi, cette fin de semaine du 3 juillet dernier, on I’amena dans Pun esperons que Texperience lui sera profitable car croire au libre 

des batiments principaux du camp et on le mis aux ceps. On iui arbitre.c’estaccorderauxautreslalibertedecommettredeserreurs 
administra trente coups sur les fesses avec un baton gros comme et d’apprendre par celles-ci. Grandir c’est un peu cela. Helas, quel 
un manche a balai. John Yarbough a ete assassine! L’autopsie a choix John Yarbough a-t-il eu d’apprendre par son erreur? Si un 
revele qu’il avait ete frappe au moins unefoisa I’epine dorsale. La petit enfant de deux ans s’aventure dans le traffic, on nes’arrete pas 
cour ordonna que Ton retire immediatement les soixante-six autres a dire ‘ “Bah! Je lui ai enseigne comment penser, reste a esperer qu’il 
enfants du camp la “Maison de Juda’’. Un acte d’accusation de ne se fera pas frapper’’. On vole a son secours. Qu’arrive-t-il au 
meurtre a ete depose. jeune de 15 ou de 28 ans qui se mele insouciant a la foule dans un 

William Lewis, qui sedit"prophete”,soutient que Paffaire Yarbough centre commercial et qui regoit une invitation a souper ou k se 
etait la volonte de Dieu et il cite deux raisons pour justifier la mort de joindre a un groupe qui professe I’amour ou le spiritualisme? Ah! 
I’enfant La premiere : "Des enfants meurent chaque jour’’. La Comme c’est beau. Nous devons cependant nous precipiter a son 
deuxieme, il la puise dans la bible. Nous retrouvons au verset 21 : secours car s’il accepte I’invitation a ce souper gratuit ou a cette 
18-21 du Deuteronome ce qui suit: “Si un fils est tetu, rebelle et reunion, il aura fait son dernier choix. Les techniques de lavage du 
refuse d’obeir a son pere et k sa mere, s’il fait fil, meme de leurs cerveau sont tres avancees, a partir de celles de I’hypnose qui fait 
reprimandes,alorstousleshommesdelavilledoiventletueracoup entrer en transe, k celles de I’amour du prochain, en passant par 
de pierres afin de purger le mal qui les entoure et tout Israel doit le celles de la privation sensorielle, voire meme des proteines, a celles 
savoir et craindre”. Selon Lewis, le camp la “Maison de Juda” des chants etc. Nombred’etudes psychologies ont demontre que 
utilisait des mesures de sactions draconiennes et systematiques. lesesprits les plus actifs, les plus inquisiteurs, les plus idealistes, les 

Cette histoire tragique va plus loin de la mort d’un innocent. Elle plus clairvoyants, deviennent passifs, peu curieux, irrationnels, 
prend racine dans I’impuissance de la society nord-americaine k meme plats. On les transforme en de veritables “zombis”, 
contenir le probleme des cultes. Des milliers de families pleurent la Quant au leader du culte, tout ce qui Pinteresse c’est Pargent. A 
perte d’un de leurs membres. Ils pleurent une perte physique cette fin, il importede recruter denouveaux membres, car chacun 
lorsque I’etre cher a ete enleve et amene dans un “refuge”, represente des milliers de dollars (par semaine parfois). Combien de 
(technique des cultes des jeunes), ou encore une perte psycholo- temps encore devrons nous attendre pour que la justice protege 
gique lorsque celui-ci ne peut plus porter de jugement critique sur des innocents, des idealistes, des adultes bien intentionnes qui se 
rien-apresavoiretemanipul§etprogramme(techniquedescultes font exploiter et manipuler par des etres egoistes, assoiffes de 

qui utilisent la therapie). pouvoir, d'argent et de gloire? Lorsqu’il s’agit d’enlevement ou 

Si vous n’avez jamais ete aborde par un membre ou n’avez pas d’abus physiques comme au camp la “Maison de Juda”, nous 

d’ami qui Pa ete, vous pensez sans doute qu'il s’agit d’un probleme pouvons compter sur les autorites pour fermer les lieux. Que fait- 

minime qui ne touche que quelques faibles en qu§te d’une verite. elles face a la ruse dont fait preuve les cultes pour kidnapper ou 

Grave erreur de jugement Personne n’est immunise contre Pendo- abuser des gens psychologiquement? 

crinement et plus vulnerable encore est la personne qui ne Nous ne pouvons qu’eprouver de la pitie pour les quelque 900 
comprend pas sa propre vulnerability. Les journalistes torment un individus qui ont commis un suicide collectif £ Jonestown, en 
noyau facile a recruter. Plusieursd’entreeuxseglissentyi’interieur Guyenne avec le Reverend Jimmy Jones. Ces gens n’etaient pas 
des temples de Moonies, Est, Therafield ou Hare Krisna pour “aller pauvres, sans education ou illettres. Ils constituent un echantillons 
decouvrir la verite." Dans la plupart des cas ce sont eux qui mordent representatif de notre culture autant que tout autre groupe de 1 000 

a Phamegon et ont tot fait d’y laisser economies, bien materiels, leur pige au hasard. Notre repulsion et notre rage devraient nous inciter 

vie meme pour asservir un maltre spirituel. C’est peut-etre entre 16 a lire, a enqueter, k nous documenter eta poser des questions sur le 
et 35 ans que se recrute le plus grand nombre mais personne n’est danger incroyable et les abus auxquels sont exposes des centaines 
immuable. Le Dr G. Clark, professeur adjoint en psychiatrie a d’innocents qui se laissent endocriner par les cultes. 

Harvard, nous dit: “Les fous sont peut-etre les seuls k ne pas etre Souvenez-vous: Personne ne se reveille un matin en se disant: 
exposes au danger”. “Bon, aujourd’hui je vais me joindre a un culte et me faire laver le 

C’est avec raison que notre society croit que Pesprit est sacre. cerveau”. Cela se fait par voie de recrutement et Pimpuissance de la 

Nous faisons tout notre possible en tant que leaders pour procurer justice contre les forces coercitives ef manipulatrices des cultes 
aux jeunes tous les ingredients qui leur permettent de s’enrichir frise le ridicule! 


THE CAMPING ADVISOR 


It was with great shock and dismay that I read 
about the beating death of a 12 year old boy at a 
religious camp called House of Judah. I cannot 
understand how the camp has been allowed to 
exist and why it’s referred to as a “religious” 
camp. Is it a religious camp? 

A.H., Windsor, Ontario 
We have asked Ian Haworth, the President of the 
Council on Mind Abuse (C-O-M-A) to explain 
their terms of reference to differentiate between 
a cult and a religion: he indicated that religions, 
for the most part, have been around for hundreds 
- even thousands - of years. Cults have not. 
Cults worship a messianic leader, usually living. 
Recruitment for religion is open and obvious; 
that is, you can enter into and out of a religious 
organization AT YOUR CHOICE (that is not to 
say there isn't a “hard" sell in religion - there 
may be - and parishoners may feel anxious, 
fearful, guilt-ridden etc. The key point is that 
there is NO DECEIT, unlike a cult). In a religion, 
you have access to information; in a cult you do 
not. In fact, most people joining cults are totally 
unaware initially that they have even joined a 
cult! There is a subtle, deceitful quality in not 
stating up-front what the organization is about; 
religions are open and honest in this regard. 
Finally, and perhaps most importantly, religious 
organizations GIVE BACK to the community; 
there is a lot of altruism, community service, 
community involvement, charity drives, helping 
the poor and on and on. Cults give nothing back 
to society; they take and take and amass for¬ 
tunes and material gain for their "spiritual 
master’’ (ironically, while the cult devotee has 
abandoned material gain him/herself). 

The Council on Mind Abuse (Box 575, Station 
Z, Toronto, Ontario M5N 2Z6) has an extensive 
reading list they recommend. Here are two you 
shouldn’t miss: Moonwebs (Josh Freed, Virgo 
paperback published by Canada Wide), the true 
story from which the movie "Ticket to Heaven" 
was based and Snapping (Flo Conway and Jim 
Siegelman, Delta Books) to understand the psy¬ 
chological process of cult indoctrination. 

We guarantee you’ll never buy a flower on the 
street again! 

* ★ * 



I would have liked to have had my son away at a 
camp, if anything just to have him out of the 
house and my supervision, but a problem has 
arisen.. 

He doesn’t want to go! Is there something the 
matter with him? When I was his age I used to 
jump at the chance of going away to camp; I’ve 
tried to tell him of all the fun he’ll have there. I’ve 
even told him that there are other boys and girls 
there and that it’s a bit like kindergarten. (He 
was also apprehensive of kindergarten too.) All 
this to no avail! 

He’s very bright and energetic and it’s hard to 
always keep up with him. 

I’d love to have him away for a couple of 
weeks in the summer. 

I’d appreciate any help that you could offer. 

R.H., Toronto, Ontario 

Going to camp for the first time can be a 
terrifying experience fora child. Important varia¬ 
bles include: the age of the child, how often he’s 
been away from home previous to the camp 
experience (weekends at grandparents, sleep¬ 
ing over at friends etc.), whether or not the child 
had friends at the same camp, whether or not 
he’s met the Camp Director, the length of the 
camping period. For these reasons, Day Camps 
appear to be an excellent way to introduce a 
child to be away from home as well as benefit- 
ting from a camp experience. 

It’s important that the child (no matter what 
age) feels that the decision to go to camp is his- 
this sense of autonomy is very significant. To 
help facilitate this decision, we suggest you 
introduce your son to the Camp Director, view 
slides on the programme at camp (almost every 
camp today has an excellent and exciting 
promotional package) and then wait for him to 
initiate his strong desire to go. It’s just so much 
easier this way; no one (at ANY age) wants to be 
asked or told to implement an idea or a pro¬ 
gramme in which the person has had no input in 
the decision-making process. 

* * * 


At the recent Pan American Games many Cana¬ 
dian and American athletes were stripped of 
their medals for having used drugs - steroids. 
What are they and how do they work? I under¬ 
stand they give you more muscle. Should we 
use them before canoe trips? 

R.A., Edmonton, Alberta 

Steroids are various synthetic derivatives of the 
male hormone testosterone. They are used to 
increase muscle bulk and strength and they are 
injected or taken orally in capsules. Obviously, 
your achievements would be better in most 
sports using anabolic steroids and if you’ve ever 
watched Russian or East German athletes com¬ 
pete in international events you’ve probably 
commented like a million others that "those 
women look more like men - look at their 
muscles!" 


What you are looking at is a female with a 
masculinized body due to the male hormone 
(testosterone). Of course, you are at an advan¬ 
tage physically but the long-range effect on the 
body is "catastrophic " according to Dr. Roy 
Bergman, Chief Physician for the U.S. team at 
the Pan Am Games. The drugs can cause 
arteriol sclerosis, heart disease, liver tumors, 
impotence, sterility and arrest of bone growth, 
even in youths. Many world-class athletes retire 
rather than use steroids; you see, they couldn’t 
keep up with those who use them but they didn’t 
want to blow the whistle or make a big deal 
about it either. It’s widespread and no one has 
talked about it - we’re against its use and the 
whole thing should be cleaned up finally. And 
no, they shouldn’t be used on canoe trips. 

* * * 

We are female counsellors in a co-ed camp; 
some of us have fallen in love at camp and some 
have not. Some people insist that you do a 
better job because you’re happier while others 
insist it’s disruptive to the flow of the camp 
programme. Our camp doesn’t have a policy 
stating that counsellors can't or shouldn’t date. 
What do you think? 

D.C. and M.B., Montreal, Qudbec 

It depends on so many circumstances it’s hard 
to treat it as a black and white issue. We actually 
think both opposing arguments are sound- two 
people falling in love will be very happy and 
therefore possibly happier at their jobs but it will 
most probably be disruptive as that couple will 
inevitably exclude others and not be as much a 
part of the "flow of camp programme" as you 
state. What makes it a good thing or a bad thing 
is really the manner in which the two people 
handle their feelings and their behaviour. In 
order to tip the scales, though, as an over-all 
impression of "love on the job", we believe it is a 
disruptive phenomenon. Even the Harvard Busi¬ 
ness Review (Sept. ’83) suggests that with more 
and more women climbing into executive posi¬ 
tions, affairs of the heart between co-workers 
should be treated as "conflicts of interest". Eliza 
Collins warns that love affairs between execu¬ 
tives can ruin careers and disrupt the organiza¬ 
tion 's power structure. She suggests a company 
policy mandating that when two executives 
become lovers, the lower-ranking one must 
leave the company. 

We suggest a lot of talk in pre-camp from the 
director with regard to expectations, commit¬ 
ment, campers, first orientation, staff dating 
policy etc. in order to prevent confusion or con- 
fffcts later in the summer. 

Thank you for your letters. We regret that we 
cannot answer each one personally; however, 
we will endeavour to publish the most inter¬ 
esting and provocative ones. Address all let¬ 
ters to: The Camping Advisor, c/o The Editor, 
Canadian Camping, 1806 Avenue Road, Suite 
2, Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1. 


5 



A serious mental health problem has been 
created in Canada, by the emergence of cults 
using psychologically coercive methods to en¬ 
snare members. Association with these preda¬ 
tory groups can be disastrous for members, 
their families and friends. 

COMAs Goals 

COMA aims, through education, to offset the 
increasing menace, posed by the deceptive 
recruitment and indoctrination techniques em¬ 
ployed by the cults. 

COMA intends to achieve its objectives by: 

• Holding educational lectures and classes for 
schools, universities, community groups, 
clubs and churches. 

• Holding public meetings and conferences to 
promote the study of mind-control tech¬ 
niques. 

• Producing radio and television programs on 
the subject of mind-control. 

• Establishing a mailing list to circulate further 
information on the subject. 

Typical Cult Recruits 

• From middle to upper class family back¬ 
grounds. 

• Sixteen to thirty-five years old. 

• Of average to above average intelligence. 

• Well educated. 

• Intellectually curious. 

• Idealistic. 

Beware of the Recruiter 
Regardless of how vulnerable a person may 
be, if he or she does not meet a recruiter, there is 
little likelihood of their 'joining' a cult; very few 
people ever set out to become cult members on 
their own. 

Beware of people with magical answers or 
solutions to world problems. Magic can be 
dangerous. 

Beware of people who are excessively or 
inappropriately friendly. There are few instant 
friendships. 

Beware of people with invitations to free 
meals and lectures. There is no free lunch. 

Beware of people that pressure you because 
"everyone else is doing it." No one knows what's 
right for you except you. 

Beware of people that recruit you through 
guilt Guilt induced by others is rarely a produc¬ 
tive emotion. 

Beware of invitations to isolated weekend 
workshops having nebulous goals. There is no 
reason to be vague or evasive, unless there is 
something to hide. 

Cult Techniques of Psychological Coercion: 
Learn to Recognize Them 
ISOLATION: Loss of reality induced by physi¬ 
cal separation from society and rational refer¬ 
ences. 

CHANGE OF DIET: Disorientation and in¬ 
creased susceptibility to emotional arousal 
achieved by depriving the nervous system of 
necessary nutrients, through use of low-protein, 
child-like food. 


The Cult Crisis! 

By: Council On Mind Abuse 

PEER GROUP PRESSURE: Suppression of 
doubt and resistance to new ideas, achieved by 
exploiting the natural need to belong. 

LOVE BOMBING: Sense of family and belonging 
contrived through hugging, kissing, touching 
and flattery. 

REMOVAL OF PRIVACY: Loss of ability to eval¬ 
uate logically achieved by preventing private 
contemplation. 

SLEEP DEPRIVATION AND FATIGUE: Dis¬ 
orientation and vulnerability created by prolong¬ 
ing mental and physical activity and withholding 
adequate rest or sleep. 

GAMES: Need for direction, when playing 
games with obscure rules increases depen¬ 
dence on the group. 

METACOMMUNICATION: Subliminal mes¬ 
sages implanted by stressing certain key words 
or phrases in long, confusing lectures. 

CONFUSING DOCTRINE: Complex lectures 
on an incomprehensible doctrine, encourage 
rejection of logic and blind acceptance. 

REJECTION OF OLD VALUES: Acceptance of 
new life-style accelerated by constantly denoun¬ 
cing former values and beliefs. 

CONFESSION: Destruction of personal egos, 
increased vulnerability to new teachings and 
recruits’ weaknesses revealed, through sharing 
innermost secrets. 

GUILT: Teachings of eternal salvation rein¬ 
forced by exaggerating sins of the former life¬ 
style. 

FEAR: Loyalty and obedience to group main¬ 
tained by threatening soul, life or limb for the 
slightest 'negative' thought, word or deed. 

CHANTING AND SINGING: Non-cult input 
screened by demanding repetition of mind nar¬ 
rowing chants or phrases, when faced with 
non-cult ideas. 

DISINHIBITION: Abdication of adult responsi¬ 
bility encouraged by orchestrating child-like 
behaviour. 

NO QUESTIONS: Automatic acceptance of 
beliefs accomplished by discouraging ques¬ 
tions. 

HYPNOSIS: State of high suggestibility in¬ 
duced by hypnosis, often thinly disguised as 
meditation. 

CONTROLLED APPROVAL Vulnerability and 
confusion maintained by alternately rewarding 
and punishing similar actions. 

DRESS: Individuality removed by demanding 
conformity to the group dress-code. 

FLAUNTING HIERARCHY: Acceptance of cult 
authority produced by promising advancement, 
power and salvation. 

FINGER POINTING: False sense of righteous¬ 
ness created by pointing to the shortcomings of 
the outside world and other cults. 

REPLACEMENT OF RELATIONSHIPS: Pre¬ 
cult families destroyed by arranging cult mar¬ 
riages and "families". 

FINANCIAL COMMITMENT: Increased de¬ 
pendence on the group achieved by 'burning 
bridges’ to past, through the donation of all 
assets. 


What Can You Do? 

• BE CAREFUL ... The cults see you coming 
long before you see them. 

• Urge your neighbours and friends to stop 
buying flowers, candy, records, jewellery, 
etc., which are being sold door-to-door, in the 
streets and in shopping malls by groups with 
obscure names and objectives. Never give 
money to any organization without first 
thoroughly checking it out. Remember cults 
claim they collect for‘children’s homes’, ‘drug 
rehabilitation programs’, ‘senior citizens’, and 
‘youth ministries’ but these charities never 
receive the money ... Don’t Feed The Hand 
That Bites You! 

• Be aware of what is said and written about 
cults in the media. 

• Write to your local M.P. and the Attorney 
General in your province expressing your 
concerns and requesting action. 

It Can Happen to You 

Sophisticated mind-control techniques will 
work on anyone, given the right circumstances. 

Those who think they are immune, are only 
making themselves more vulnerable. 

Remember the assault is on your emotions, 
NOT on your intellect. 

You should know that the two basic principles 
of psychological coercion are: 

1. If you can make a person BEHAVE the way 
you want, you can make that person BELIEVE 
the way you want. 

2. Sudden, drastic changes in environment lead 
to heightened suggestibility and to drastic 
changes in attitudes and beliefs. 

Be alert! Protect yourself! Don’t go away for a 
weekend or longer with a stranger or a strange 
group unless: 

• You know the name of the sponsoring group. 

• You know its ideas, beliefs and affiliations. 

• You know what is going to happen at the 
gathering. 

• You know that you will be free and able to 
leave at anytime. 

Don’t accept vague answers, ask for specifics. 
Cult Characteristics 

• Uses psychologically coercive techniques in 
order to recruit and indoctrinate its members. 

• Maintains that ‘the end justifies the means.’ 

• Forms a totalitarian society. 

• Has a charismatic, messianic, dogmatic 
leader, who demands total devotion. 

• Obtains funds through deception for the 
personal gain and/or power of its leader, but 
performs no real service to society. 

• Destroys former relationships with family and 
friends. 

• Teaches fear, hatred and rejection of society, 
whilst claiming to promote the cause of‘world 
peace’ and ‘universal love.’ 

• Intimidates critics. 

• Allows no development of the individual. 

• Isolates its members, polarizing them and 
society into two opposing camps. 


6 


• Usually demands full-time life-time commit¬ 
ment. 

• Has secret practices, doctrines and/or objec¬ 
tives. 

• Has simple black-and-white solutions to the 
world’s problems. 

Harmful Effects 

• Loss of free will. 

• Destroyed family relationships. 

• Involuntary slavery. 

• Neurotic, psychotic or suicidal tendencies. 

• Hallucinations, panic, dissociation, guilt, iden¬ 
tity diffusion and paranoia. 

• Reduced capacity to form flexible and inti¬ 
mate human relationships. 

• Diminished intellectual ability, vocabulary and 
sense of humour. 

• Physical deterioration. 

• Malnutrition. 

• Poor judgment. 

• Reduced use of irony, abstractions and 
metaphors. 

• Financial suffering. 

It Is Normal 

It is normal to occasionally feel alone. 

It is normal to occasionally feel overwhelmed 
by decisions to be made. 

It is normal to occasionally feel like the world 
is falling apart around you. 

If there is a time when you feel like that, it will 
help you to reach out to someone you know and 
trust ... 
a friend 
a teacher 
a parent 
a counsellor 
a crisis hotline 
a member of the clergy 
a member of the campus ministry 
Cults are not interested in helping you, but in 
helping themselves. 

Trusting cult promises could lead to separa¬ 
tion from your family and friends, your resources 
and your ability to think for yourself. 

Cults want your free, full-time, life-time com¬ 
mitment as a recruiter and fund-raiser... 

Help Us to Warn Others 

Hundreds of parents have been rudely awak¬ 
ened to the fact that cults are actively recruiting 
our young people now, despite Jonestown and 
all of its ominous warnings. 

COMA believes that one of the most powerful 
ways to fight this insidious threat is to provide 
information that will help parents, relatives, and 
young people to understand the methods and 
dangers of the approximately 3000 cults in 
North America. 

One young woman after having been rescued 
from a cult by her family, said to her father,"... if I 
had ever heard a lecture on cults in a high 
school assembly or a college lecture, or en¬ 
gaged in a discussion of cults in a psychology 
or sociology class and written a term paper on 
the subject, or listened to a sermon on cults in 
our church, or discussed cults around our 
dinner table; in other words, if I had been 
enlightened and warned - I would never have 
accepted that first invitation to ‘Meet a bunch of 



neat guys and girls’ and I never would have 
become psychologically hooked. In part, I blame 
the institutions and their silence!” 

He that will not reason is a bigot 
He that cannot reason is a fool 
He that dares not reason is a slave! 

- William Drummond 

“When you meet the friendliest people you 
have ever known, who introduce you to the most 
loving group of people you’ve ever encountered, 
and you find the leader to be the most inspired, 
caring, compassionate and understanding 
person you’ve ever met, and then you learn that 
the cause of the group is something you never 
dared hope could be accomplished, and all of 
this sounds too good to be true - it probably is 
too good to be true! Don’t give up your educa¬ 


tion, your hopes and ambitions to follow a 
rainbow 

Jeannie Mills 
Survivor - Jonestown, Guyana 

If you have a friend or relative who already has 
a cult-related problem, contact: 

Cult Information Centre (CIC) 

Box 1000, Station G 
Montreal, Quebec H2W 2N1 

Council On Mind Abuse (COMA) 

Box 575, Station Z 
Toronto, Ontario M5N 2Z6 

Saskatchewan Citizens Against Mind Control 
(SCAMC) 

Box 74, Saskatoon, Saskatchewan S7K 2L4. 






By: Ian Fowler 


N.B.C.A. Spring Happenings 


Two weekends highlighted the spring calen¬ 
dar of events for members of the New Brunswick 
Camping Association. 

The week-end of May 27-29 saw 70 camp 
counsellors and directors participate in a 
Counsellor/Director Conference at Rotary 
Camp near Fredericton. 

Although the weather was somewhat damp, 
spirits were high as Jane McCutcheon, opened 
the week-end with her keynote address entitled 
"Hear The Children When They Call.” Through¬ 
out the context of her address Jane referred to 
the responsibility of a camp counsellor and the 
special role they have when working with their 
campers. Her address also emphasized the 
many things that a counsellor can learn from the 
child. A highlight of the talk was her discussion 
of the Peanuts gang and how counsellors 
would assist the likes of Charlie Brown, Lucy 
and Linus in overcoming their problems. Need¬ 
less to say, after listening to this meaningful, but 
somewhat humourousaddress, the participants 
were motivated not only for the week-end but for 
the summer. 

Throughout the remainder of the week-end, 
counsellors selected interest areas from over 
twenty seminars available to them. Although the 
workshop included the regular sessions on 
crafts, nature and campskills, new items on 
kites, story telling and out-trips provided the 
opportunity for returning participants to con¬ 
tinue their development. 

For the second year, a seminar for Camp 
Directors was also held in conjunction with the 
counsellor event. The event provided senior 
staff with an opportunity to share ideas, while at 
the same time gaining insight in areas such as 
staff training and motivation, emergency proce¬ 
dures and C.l.T. programs. 


Both groups combined participation in a fun 
night on Friday evening while Saturday evening 
the delegates participated in a fantastic camp¬ 
fire workshop, under the leadership of Jane 
McCutcheon. 

Needless to say the participants departed for 
their own camps, better prepared for the excite¬ 
ment and challenges the upcoming summer 
would bring. 

The N.B.C.A. gratefully acknowledges the 
financial support of the Canadian Camping 
Association to this event by funding the Con¬ 
sultant/Advisor. 




From June 10-12 Camp Glenburn was the site 
of our first canoe school. Twenty-four partici¬ 
pants enjoyed a beautiful week-end on Bellisle 
Bay, developing their individual canoeing skills. 

The workshop was specifically designed as 
an instructors school with sessions on water 
safety, trip preparation, and teaching techniques 
along with the practical sessions for the various 
strokes. 

Without question, the workshop was a re¬ 
sounding success and will become a regular 
activity on our calendar of events. 

Thanks are extended to Owen Fraser for his 
leadership towards this event. 


8 


Ian Fowler 


Summer Camp: An Opportunity for Personal Growth 

By: Walter Tose, Director of Camp Couchiching 


Every summer thousands of children across 
Canada head off to spend a week or more at 
camp. It’s a time to be with friends, to learn 
how to canoe or sail or ride a horse, to enjoy 
the splendour of a magnificent sunset, to won¬ 
der at the awesome beauty of nature, to experi¬ 
ence spiritual renewal and the special magic 
of the campfire. 

Many of you who are reading this will have 
your own fond memories of camp. For many 
the friendships made at camp last a lifetime. 
There seems to be something special about 
camp, something which you just can’t find 
anywhere else. What makes camp so special? 

The opportunity for personal growth at 
summer camp is tremendous. Often it is the 
first time that a child is put into a situation 
where he/she must rely totally on strangers. 
There is no one there from home, no mom or 
dad to fall back on, no school friends. It can be 
quite a shock initially, but with help from 
skilled counsellors new campers soon feel 


right at home. In fact, camp provides an oppor¬ 
tunity to escape the trappings of ‘the same old 
routine’ at home. At camp, everybody is a 
stranger in the beginning. Everybody starts 
on equal terms. There are no ‘neighbourhood 
bullies’ or ‘kids who always get picked on’. 
There is no pressure to ‘do as well as an older 
sibling’. Camp provides an opportunity to 
make new friends, to play a different role, to 
break away from family and friends and gain a 
whole new perspective on the world. 

Camp also provides an opportunity for chil¬ 
dren to try new activities, different from those 
at home - to sail a boat, go on a canoe trip, ride 
a horse or even just sleep out under the stars. 
With encouragement and support from caring 
counsellors a child will often discover that 
he/she can do things which once seemed im¬ 
possible. “Wow, I thought I’d never learn how 
to swim, but I have! I got my badge!” A good 
camp program builds confidence in campers. 

Many activities at camp require teamwork - 


planning acanoe trip oratalent show, working 
on a campcraft project, even something as 
simple as paddling a canoe or pitching a tent. 
And so campers learn about co-operation and 
interdependence. Camp also provides an op¬ 
portunity for children to learn about man’s 
interdependence with the natural environ¬ 
ment and develop an appreciation for the 
beauty of the natural world. In an age where 
civilization’s very existence is in peril because 
of man’s arrogant belief that he can control 
anything he chooses to, the camp experience 
injects a measure of humility. It is an opportu- 
nity.for reflection and spiritual re-awakening. 

Summer camp. It’s an opportunity for chil¬ 
dren to gain confidence, independence and 
insight; to meet new friends, enjoy healthy 
outdoor activities and learn new skills; to ex¬ 
perience fun, friendship, adventure and inspi¬ 
ration; to get away from the routine of city life; 
to dream dreams and maybe, just maybe, 
change this world for the better. It’s an experi¬ 
ence which nobody should miss. 


Book Review 


Staying Found by June Fleming. Vintage Books, 
Random House, New York, Toronto. 159 pps, 
illustrations. $6.50. 

I believe it was Davy Crockett that said it first. 
“I’ve never been lost, but I was a mite bewildered 
once for three days." Outdoors people have 
been paraphrasing him since that day, unwilling 
to admit to getting lost. Yet, it is not an uncom¬ 
mon occurrence, one that has prompted many 
books. Now June Fleming, a frequent contribu¬ 
tor to BC OUTDOORS, has added to these with 
her new book Staying Found, a rather different 
approach to an old problem. Fleming’s book is a 
handbook to compass and map use, emphasiz¬ 
ing knowing where you are rather than trying to 
find your way back to where you came from. The 
accent is on the positive instead of the negative 
side of being lost. 

Fleming reasserts the usual information about 
the use of the outdoors person’s two main tools, 
the map and compass, but in a fashion easily 
understood. The text is accompanied by many 
illustrations, anecdotes and scenarios to illus¬ 
trate her points. There are no photographs but 
the illustrations take their place. In addition to 
the run-of-the-mill information, Fleming adds 
chapters on “Looking To Nature for Help”; 
“Route Planning”; “How to Stay Found" and 
“Route Finding on Snow” - all worthwhile 
subjects. 

Although published in the U.S., Fleming’s 
interest in things Canadian shows in her good 
coverage of Canadian maps and sources. If you 
are a newcomer to the outdoors or someone 
who feels that map and compass are bewilder¬ 
ing then this is the book for you. 



by Richard Thomas Wright 
Reprinted from BC Outdoors, August 1982 


9 




Christian and Church Camping in Perspective 


John is a Presbyterian Minister who has been 
very active in camping: Former Director of Glen 
Mhor Camp, Baysville, Ontario; Former member 
of National-Advisory Committee on Camping for 
the Presbyterian Church in Canada; Former 
Vice-President of Christian Camping Inter¬ 
national, Canada. Presently doing graduate 
study in theology at Princeton Theological 
Seminary. 

Recent media coverage of certain “cult 
camps” has once again brought the activity of 
religious cults to the attention of the public- this 
time in connection with the camping movement. 
Surely no issue can evoke as much emotion and 
controversy as religion. But the religious issue, 
because it affects every area of life and indeed 
seeks to address very basic human philosophi¬ 
cal questions and human needs, cannot be 
avoided in any area of society. Those who are 
involved in the organized camping movement, 
therefore, as educators, leaders, social workers, 
ministers, recreation specialists and others, are 
faced with the issue also. We are called upon to 
give careful consideration to these very com¬ 
plex matters and to make some response. 

I should like, as a member of the Christian and 
church camping community (although I express 
only personal opinions), to plead for a careful, 
thoughtful, and open discussion of the role of 
religion in camping and the particular role of 
Christian and religious camps within the camp¬ 
ing movement and profession. It is too easy to 
respond to tragic circumstances, where religion 
has been misused and campers abused, with 
over-emotional and unconsidered reactions 
which would reflect on entire religious commu¬ 
nities and would not take into account the par¬ 
ticular circumstances of each situation and the 
complex nature of religious traditions and belief, 
and their relationship to society. 

Careful distinctions can and must be made 
between camps operated by religious bodies or 
agencies, churches and Christian groups, and 
those operated by groups generally categorized 
as “religious cults”. This I will try to demonstrate 
below. But the issues are not always easy and 
definitions not clear. Descriptions and defini¬ 
tions of religion, cults, church, sect, and brain¬ 
washing are involved. On the one hand we wish 
to guard against mind abuse and protect free¬ 
dom of choice in these matters. On the other 
hand certain kinds of responses to these prob¬ 
lems in the name of the protection of freedom 
can only result in the further abuse of religious 
freedom and civil liberties. 

Religion and Camping 

When thinking about religion and camping, 
we must first realize that all camps have built 
into their program activities and community life, 
certain belief systems, standards, guidelines, 
morals, and values which are communicated to 
the campers. These may be stated objectively or 
they may be inherent and unarticulated, but 
nevertheless effectively communicated. A neu- 


By John A. Vissers 

tral position of a “no belief system” under the 
name of secularism or humanism is a myth, in 

education and in our camps. Every camp Direc¬ 
tor, camp board, and camp staff possess philo¬ 
sophies of life which are taught to campers. 

We are faced, then, with what values or belief 
systems are appropriate. How are these judged? 
Who is to say what I am trying to do at my camp 
is better or worse than what you are trying to do? 
Within a democratic and pluralistic society we 
expect a certain amount of disagreement and 
difference of opinion concerning these values. 
As a Christian, the foundation, content, and 
implications of my beliefs may be very different 
from your values and belief system. But within 
certain agreed-upon limits (informed community 
standards), especially in regard to children, we 
accept a variety of values as objectives for 
camps. You may wish to instill inyourcampersa 
deep appreciation for nature for any variety of 
reasons. I may wish to instill the same value on 
the basis of God and creation. My belief and 
value system for life might include the Bible, the 
church, and knowledge of a personal God 
revealed in Jesus Christ. I hold these to be true 
and while perhaps disagreeing with some of 
your beliefs nonetheless respect your right to 
hold them and build them into your camp 


program. I hope you would be willing to extend 
the same courtesy and freedom to me. To begin 
judging each other’s values to the point of legis¬ 
lating exclusion of some from organized camp¬ 
ing programs would be an impossible situation 
in which to live. It is for this reason that profes¬ 
sional camping bodies urge all camps to have 
written philosophy, objective, and policy state¬ 
ments, and to be honest in their camp adver¬ 
tising. 

When it comes to cults, however, this is not 
the real problem. The focus must be shifted 
away from the content of values and belief 
systems to the method of communicating these 
to campers. Here a philosophy of education 
emerges. How are we communicating values, 
belief systems, guidelines or standards for 
living, and faith to children, young people, and 
all campers? Is it being done with integrity? Is it 
being done in a responsible manner which 
recognizes the uniqueness of each individual? 
Is it being done in an atmosphere of freedom? 

Although psychologists tell us that it is not 
easy to define "brainwashing” and although 
sociologists tell us that the choices in our lives 
are restricted (some say determined) by our 
social surroundings, still we must guard against 
mind abuse which restricts intellectual freedom 



10 


Camp Tawingo 






- especially when it comes to children and 
young people. 

Giving careful consideration to the content of 
belief systems and the methods by which these 
are communicated to campers, and seeking to 
protect religious freedom, does not prevent us 
from clearly denouncing certain practices as 
unacceptable or illegal within camps. Rather, it 
demands that we do so. We must denounce the 
excessive and inappropriate use of discipline 
which led to the death of a twelve year old boy at 
the house of Judah religious camp . 

We must denounce the denial of medical atten¬ 
tion to children in the name of religious faith as 
some cults encourage. We must denounce the 
sexual abuse of children as encouraged by 
some practices of the Children of God cult. 
These are a misuse of religious faith and an 
abuse of children. They are unacceptable prac¬ 
tices within the organized camping movement. 

Church and Christian Camping 

Church and Christian camps have sought to 
make a positive contribution to the organized 
camping movement in Canada. Indeed, Chris¬ 
tian and Church camps were among the first 
camps organized in this country and in the 
United States. Christian Camping International 
and other Christian and church camping agen¬ 
cies have sought to cooperate with the Cana¬ 
dian Camping Association and provincial 
camping associations. 

But we also admit, and do so proudly and 
without hesitation, that our camps - operated by 
local congregations, denominational boards, 
and non-denominational agencies - are part of 
the Christian church’s total ministry of outreach 
and education. 

A Christian or church camp is not simply a 
camp that does everything other camps do plus 
Bible Study. It is an intentional Christian commu¬ 
nity where the people, activities and atmosphere 
are all directed to the glory of God. It is a place to 
grow. 

The Church is involved in camping because it 
is a ministry. The objective of various other 
types of camps might include opportunities for 
personal growth, enjoyment and appreciation of 
the out-of-doors, learning responsible commu¬ 
nity living, and the development of personal 
skills. All of these goals may be included in 
those for church camps as well, but the unique¬ 
ness of Christian camping is that its main objec¬ 
tive is that of the church - helping people come 
to know the redeeming love of God in Jesus 
Christ. 

Church camping is an extension of the minis¬ 
try of the Christian church. Christian education 
and evangelism are the focus. It is person- 
centred and community oriented, part of the 
total effort to help people mature in Christ in 
every area of life - mental, social, physical, 
emotional, and spiritual. 

We seek to do all of this responsibly and with 
integrity and would wish to distinguish our¬ 
selves from groups who distort the basic Chris¬ 
tian message that Jesus Christ is God and 
Saviour, and who would employ methods of 
communicating belief systems which do not 
respect the uniqueness of each individual as 


created by God - nor respect the integrity 
inherent in the Christian Gospel. 

Religion and Cults 

When seeking to understand the differences 
between a cult and a religion it is important to 
give careful consideration to their origins and 
history, their leadership structures and styles, 
their theology and doctrine and belief systems, 
the kinds of communities they organize and 
social functions they perform, and their impact 
upon society. These categories of comparison 
are helpful in understanding religious groups 
and in making judgements concerning cults 
and religion. 

Dr. John Clark, Professor of Psychiatry at 
Harvard Medical School makes the following 
list of differences between a cult and a religion. 
A cult will use deceit in recruitment while 
religion uses no deceit in recruitment. A cult is a 
totalitarian society, while religion allows free¬ 
dom of thought and action. A cult destroys the 
family unit while religion promotes the family 
unit. A cult isolates its membership while reli¬ 
gion does not isolate its membership. A cult 
keeps non-believers out while religion encour¬ 
ages general community participation. A cult 
allows for no development of the individual - in 
fact regression often occurs - while religion is 
interested in promoting development of the 
individual. A cult exploits and manipulates its 
members with mind control techniques while 
religion is supportive, sympathetic, and under¬ 


standing. A cult encourages instant commitment 
for life while religion encourages thoughtful 
commitment for life. A cult intimidates its critics 
with legal entanglements or physical threats 
while religion generally welcomes criticism. 

Christian and church camps would generally 
welcome these distinctions and would seek to 
build their program upon the positive aspects of 
religion within the context of Biblical faith. Chris¬ 
tian and church camps would encourage 
leaders who would implement these positive 
objectives. We would encourage the servant- 
model of leadership rather than the type of 
leader who creates dependence and promotes 
oneself as a messianic leader and authority. 
Christian and church camps would seek to 
teach on the authority of the Bible. As Christian 
and church camps, we would seek to act as part 
of the Christian church and stand in the tradition 
of the historic Christian faith. 

Christian and church camps have played a 
significant role in the camping movement in 
North America. I hope this will continue to be the 
case in the future. Christian and church camps 
have sought to act as an integral part of the 
church of Jesus Christ - the historic Christian 
church. We trust this will also continue to be true 
in the future. We are not happy when religion 
and faith are misused and people are abused. 
And all of us, religiously affiliated camps and 
others must guard against cultic tendencies in 
our own camps - no matter what our belief 
system. 


11 




The second annual B.C. Leadership Develop¬ 
ment camp is now over and we have all (staff 
and counsellors alike) come away with: new 
skills and knowledge, new program ideas and 
approaches and, most important, with new 
friends, powerful memories and new under¬ 
standing about who we are and perhaps who 
we can be. 

More than 50 counsellors took part in the 
Camp - twenty-six for the full five days and the 
remainder for shorter periods over the last three 
days. Participants came from: the Queen Char¬ 
lotte Islands, from Prince George, from Quesnel, 
from Kamloops, the Gulf Islands and from all 
over the lower mainland B.C. They came from 
about 25 different camps. 

The program was planned in three broad 
categories: leadership concepts and styles, 
camping and outdoors skills, and sessions 
designed to increase participant’s program 
inventory. Over the course of the week there 
were 15 different resource people who led seg¬ 
ments of the program. Bob Stedham from Camp 
Potlatch was back “by popular demand” to do 
his session on planning effective camp fire pro¬ 
grams. Others, back for a second year were: 
Antonia Motta, on co-operative games, Dave 
Kabool (Vancouver Neurological Society) on 
Leadership and Group Dynamics, Bob Ennen- 
berg (Camp Wallace and Cedar Cottage) with 
his session on acclimatization, and Linda Wat- 
kinson (A.N.H. - Camping Unit) on rainy day 
programs. Paul Hansen, Director of Camp Squa- 
mish (Easter Seal Camp) spent a day and even¬ 
ing with us and not only did a special session on 
integrating the disabled in camp programs, but 
participated in a number of other programs as 
well. Dave Stevens and Sue Adair (A.N.H. - 
Camping Unit) ran a firstaid program specifically 
designed for camp staff and all the participants 
earned their Workers Compensation Board Sur¬ 
vival First Aid Certificate. During the first half of 
the week Lea Savien (Recreational Canoe 
Association of B.C.) joined us to lead sessions 
on basic canoe skills and teaching methods. 

Highlight of the week was our special guest, 
Jack Pearse and his session on song leading 


technique. For 2V2 hours the master showed us 
how it should be done, generating a tremendous 
enthusiasm and appreciation for this most 
important part of camp life. 

The program was designed to cover a very 
wide range of material. We started each day at 
8:00 a.m. with Katimavik, a wake-up session of 
active songs, stunts and games, and went right 
on through ’til about 10:00 p.m. each evening 
when a snack was served, usually followed by 
an informal program such as a camp fire or 
square dancing. As the week progressed there 
were more and more opportunities for the coun¬ 
sellors to practice new skills and leadership 
styles, first in their own cabin groups, then with a 
larger group and finally in all camp programs. 

The cabin groups are an important part of our 
approach as it has developed over the past 
couple of years. The counsellors are assigned 
to a group when they arrive and this group func¬ 
tions in a way very similar to a normal cabin 
group in a camp. Each group has as its coun¬ 
sellor an experienced senior staff member. As 
the week progresses this group works together, 
takes on responsibilities for parts of the pro¬ 
gram, meets to discuss and reflect upon their 
experiences, and most important, to analyze 
their own development as a group. The purpose, 
of course, is to help them begin to understand 
and appreciate in greater depth the dynamics 
that will affect their own groups of campers this 
summer. 

Most of the participants in Leadership Camp 
have a number of years experience as campers 
and often as Jr. Counsellors or C.l.T.’s. They are, 
therefore, in a transition stage between being 
program consumers and being responsible for 
planning and operating programs. A key objec¬ 
tive of the Camp was to generate an awareness 
that program has purpose. That it doesn’t "just 
happen" somehow, but is based on planning 
and an anticipation and understanding of how 
groups of people function at different points in 
their development. The process started the first 
evening when Bob Stedham did an analysis 
with the participants of the first few hours in 
camp and some of the techniques that had been 


used to make them feel comfortable and to help 
them get to know each other and the camp staff. 
This theme was touched on in almost every 
session right through the week so that by the 
end of the program the counsellors were highly 
sensitive to the "why” of program planning. 

Given the large number of resource people 
leading sessions, in addition to the experienced 
group counsellors, participants had an oppor¬ 
tunity to experience and discuss a diverse 
range of effective yet very different leadership 
styles. The message that good leaders are not 
all cast from the same mould came through very 
clearly. 

On the final day we closed up camp in the 
afternoon and brought everyone into Vancouver 
to join the B.C.C.A. Annual Meeting and banquet. 
Through the miracle of one day slide processing 
and some tremendous scrambling on the part of 
staff, we were able to put together a slide show 
of most of the week's events to share with 
B.C.C.A. members at the banquet. The partici¬ 
pants were presented with certificates and each 
received a copy of Jack Pearse’s "Lead on 
Counsellor”. At the request of the counsellors 
the evening ended with Jack leading us in "Let 
There Always Be a Song”, that great new song 
by Mark Baldwin that everyone who was at the 
International Camping Congress will remember. 

It was an emotional and powerful way to end a 
week that had tremendous impact on all of us. 
All of us thank the people who made the 
program possible: the B.C.C.A. and the Assoc, of 
Neighbourhood Houses of Greater Vancouver 
(the co-sponsors), those who helped financially 
- the Vancouver Foundation, the Chris Spender 
Foundation, the Orphan’s Fund of C.K.N.W., the 
Alexandra Foundation and the C.C.A., the many 
resource people who gave of their time and skill 
and knowledge, to our special guest, Jack 
Pearse, who gives of himself so unstintingly and 
who exemplifies "camp spirit", and finally to the 
young people who cared enough to give up five 
days of their Easter holidays to work as long and 
hard as they ever have in their lives in order to 
become better camp counsellors. 



12 



We Salute You - Mary Roy! 


“/ never went to camp. Just about the time I 
ought to have gone to camp, I came to Canada, 
instead, to live with my grandparents. But I 
always wanted to go to camp.” 

MARY ROY 

Many years ago, Mary Roy’s mother said 
“Bye, bye” to Hamilton and moved to Georgia. 
When Mary reached University age, she chose 
to complete the last two years of her degree at 
McMaster University in Hamilton, Ontario. 

It was at McMaster she met her husband, Rob 
Roy, who is now the Manager of Investments for 
Independent Insurance Managers. Mary and 
Rob have a wonderful family of perfect sym¬ 
metry - two daughters, two sons. Rob is 28, 
Hillary is 27, Ian is 25 and Virginia is 20. 

Mary came to the CCA at the tail-end of John 
Latimer’s presidency in the spring of 1975 and 
she served the camping community with great 
commitment and quality supporting John’s 
successors in office - Ron Johnstone, Jack 
Pearse, Cliff Labbett and Jocelyn Palm. 

“I am really going to miss it. I am going to miss 
the people I love from all across the country. I am 
going to miss organizing people to attend 
meetings and conferences hither and yon. It all 
brought such great pleasure to me.” 

MARY ROY 

Mary Roy guided us through some truly 
remarkable happenings in CCA. With Fred 
Okada’s leadership, the Publications Depart¬ 
ment just grew and grew and grew. Mary 
assembled and published comprehensive cata¬ 
logues of CCA books. She negotiated a super 
arrangement with the American Camping 
Association for the distribution of their books 


throughout Canada - not only to camping folk 
but to libraries, schools and university courses. 

She was meticulous in co-ordinating 
Canada’s participation and involvement in the 
first international conference on camping which 
was jointly sponsored by CCA and ACA at 
Minneapolis, Minnesota in 1979. 

With Brian Blackstock’s leadership, Mary 
designed the format, layout and distributions of 
the new Canadian Camping Newsletter, begin¬ 
ning in the fall of 1976 and through her good 
friend, Ken Smith, the Director of the Non- 
Residents Branch of the National Sport & 
Recreation Centre, Mary Roy and Cliff Labbett 
arranged for the nationwide distribution of 
Canadian Camping. 

Throughout her time with CCA, she was very 
skillful in preparing grant submissions to the 
Federal Government and in the reconciliation of 
the financial statements for each project that 
was federally funded. 

Above all, with her charm and grace and 
warmth and sincerity, she endeared herself from 
coast to coast by always being available, knowl¬ 
edgeable, forward-thinking and helpful. She 
fostered and exemplified closer communication 
between Provincial Associations and the 
National Office by encouraging the exchange of 
Provincial Newsletters, Board Minutes and Con¬ 
ference Reports. 

You are going to miss CCA, Mary? My oh my, 
are we going to miss you! And our love and good 
wishes go with you for great success, rewards 
and satisfactions throughout your life. 

“Nothing has suited my life more than to have 
been associated, in this way, with CCA.” 

MARY ROY 


POEM 

The Sacrament of Fire 

Kneel always when you light a fire! 

Kneel reverently and thankful be 
For God’s unfailing charity, 

And on the ascending flame inspire 
A little prayer, that shall upbear 
The incense of your thankfulness 
For this sweet grace 
Of warmth and light! 

For here again is sacrifice 
For your delight. 

Within the wood, 

That lived a joyous life 
Through sunny days and rainy days 
And winter storms and strife; - 
Within the peat, 

That drank the moorland sweet 
Of bracken, whin, and sweet bell-heather, 

And all the joy of gold gorse feather 
Flaming like Love in wintriest weather, - 
While snug below, in sun and snow, 

Peat heard the beat of the padding feet 
Of foal and dam, and ewe and lamb, 

And the stamp of old bell-wether; - 
Within the coal, 

Where forests lie entombed, 

Oak, elm, chestnut, beech, and red pine bole,- 
God shrined His sunshine and enwombed 
For you these stores of light and heat, 

Your life-joys to complete. 

These all have died that you might live; 

Yours now the high prerogative 
To loose their long captivities, - 
To give them new sweet span of life 
And fresh activities. 

Kneel always when you light a fire! 

Kneel reverently, 

And grateful be 

To God for His unfailing charity! 

John Oxenham from 
THE TE DEUMS AND THE SACRAMENTS 


Archives Update 

By: Bruno Morawetz 

As many of you head into a new season of 
workshops, conferences and training events, 
now is the time to send copies of last year’s 
conference programs to the CCA Archives c/o 
the National Office. 

Cliff Labbett, Immediate Past President, is cur¬ 
rently canvassing all the CCA Past Presidents 
for ideas to celebrate CCA’s 50th Anniversary in 
1986. Drop us a note if you have any unique 
ideas! 

We have a new archivist working on our 
collection at Trent University. Congratulations to 
Mrs. Bernadine Dodge on her recent appoint¬ 
ment at Trent. Interested members'may contact 
Bernadine Dodge at: Bata Library, Trent Univer¬ 
sity, Peterborough, Ontario K9L 7B8. 



13 




Yes, Campers, There IS a 
National Camping Day!... 

by Mamie Ellis, National Chairperson, PR & Promotion 


... and the second annual event will be 
MARCH 21,1984 - the first day of Spring! What 
better day to start reminding parents to think 
about choosing a camp for their child than the 
first day when folks’ thought start turning once 
again to warmth, fresh air and thoughts of new 
life? 

The date was chosen by the group attending 
the Pre-Congress Workshop on Promotion. 
This is the group, which, along with the Provin¬ 
cial Presidents and Board, has spearheaded the 
National Camping Day efforts to date, and which 
laid such an excellent foundation last April. As 
pointed out by Dennis McLelland (formerly of 
Nova Scotia), the first day of Spring is one that 
everyone knows but no other group «has» as 
their official day. What better group could be 
featured on the first day of spring than that 
which offers a delightful and important summer 
experience to thousands of youngsters? 

The theme for 1984 will be «Don’t Wait for 
Summer- Think Camping Now!» The underlying 
tone will emphasize the importance of planning 
the child’s camp experience; choosing the right 
camp for each child. Each province should have 
a list of all its member camps ready to send out 

Gift Idea 

As you plan for the holiday season, con¬ 
sider buying our hasti-notes as inexpen¬ 
sive gifts and stocking stuffers! 

Two special camp designs have been 
used: children playing and solo canoeist in 
each package of 6 cards and envelopes. 
The price is $3.00 each for 1 - 4 packages, 
and only $2.50 each for 5 or more. These 
are available through your provincial camp¬ 
ing association office or by mail order from 
the CCA/ACC. Order before December 1 st 
for the holiday season. Your purchase will 
help support the work of the CCA/ACC. 


to those filling in the inquiry form that will accom¬ 
pany the posters. 

The colourful posters will be sent to the Pro¬ 
vincial Offices in early November - ready for 
distribution at pre-Christmas meetings or in 
seasonal mailings to member camps. Each will 
be accompanied by a letter to the Director, and 
information that can be shared with campers 
and staff. 

Already work is being undertaken to ensure 
participation in this year’s National Camping 
Day by the Minister of Fitness and Amateur 
Sport. Arrangements are being made for cross¬ 
country newspaper and radio stories and for 
important interviews. 

Keep an eye on future Canadian Camping 
articles for up-to-date information on National 
Camping Day - March 21,1984 and remember 
to inform all your campers and staff of this date 
at every opportunity. 

National Camping Day is our chance to make 
ourselves known in every household; to attract 
new campers and staff; and to show our profes¬ 
sionalism and our interest in the youth of 
Canada. Be a part of this massive and exciting 
program- Don’t Wait for Spring- Start Thinking 
National Camping Day Now! 


HELP WANTED 

Camp Director & Administrator 

• for a small coed camp 

• full enrolment 

• option to rent or lease 

• owners available as consultants 

Apply to: 

Camp Allsaw, 9 Calais Avenue 
Downsview, Ontario M3M 1N3 


MENU FEATURE 

MAKE AHEAD CORNMEAL MIX 

Courtesy: Ontario Milk Marketing Board 


4 cups all-purpose flour 

1 L 

2 tsp. salt 

10 mL 

1 cup sugar 

250 mL 

Vi cup baking powder 

50 mL 

1 cup vegetable shortening 

250 mL 

4 cups yellow cornmeal 

1 L 


In a large bowl combine flour, salt, sugar and 
baking powder. With a pastry blender (or two 
knives) cut in shortening until mixture resembles 
coarse crumbs. Stir in cornmeal. Store in a large 
airtight container in a cool, dry place. Use within 
10 weeks. Makes 10 cups Cornmeal Mix (2.5 L) 
in about 5 minutes. 

NOW YOU’RE READY TO MAKE: 

CORNBREAD. Place 2V2 cups (750 mL) Corn¬ 
meal Mix in a large bowl. Beat 2 eggs with 1 cup 
(250 mL) milk. Blend liquid ingredients quickly 
into cornmeal mix. Pour batter into a greased 8” 
(1 L) square pan or a 1 L loaf pan. Bake in 
preheated 425° F (220° C) oven for about 25 
mins, (square pan) or 45 mins, (loaf pan) until top 
is golden and cornbread is cooked. 

CORNMEAL MUFFINS. Combine Cornmeal Mix, 
eggs and milk as above. Spoon batter into 12 
greased muffin cups, filling each cup % full. 
Bake 15-20 minutes in preheated 425° F (220° C) 
oven. 

CHEESEY CORNMEAL MUFFINS. Add V 2 cup 
(125 mL) grated old Cheddar cheese to Corn¬ 
meal Muffin batter (above). 

MARMALADE MUFFINS. Fill muffin cups ]/ 3 full 
with Cornmeal Muffin batter (above). Add 1 tsp. 
(5 mL) marmalade. Cover with batter until cups 
are % full. 


14 







Dispose of camp food 
service problems with 

royal Chinet 

disposable plates and bowls 

Strong, attractive Royal CHINET food service products help you ... 

• DISPOSE OF DISHWASHING COSTS 

Cut the expense of installing, maintaining and manning equipment 
that is used only a few months of the year. 

• DISPOSE OF BREAKAGE 

Save yourself the trouble and expense of buying matching replace¬ 
ments for pieces that crack, chip and shatter. 

• DISPOSE OF FOOD WASTE 

You get exact portion control with Royal CHINET's wide range of 
sizes in regular and compartmented designs. 

• DISPOSE OF GERM COLLECTORS 

Royal CHINET products are sterilized when manufactured and 
packaged. And there’s never a germ-collecting chip, crack or 
poorly washed dish. 

• DISPOSE OF IRRITATING NOISE 

Disposable service is silent service. Meals are relaxed without the 
clatter and crash of china or metal. 

ENVIRONMENTAL ADVANTAGES, TOO 

All good campers want to protect the environment. Royal CHINET prod¬ 
ucts are manufactured from a renewable resource. What’s more, they’re 
biodegradable ... molded of natural wood fibres that burn readily with 
little smoke. Even if discarded out-of-doors, Royal CHINET quickly de¬ 
composes in the earth. 

Get the full particulars now. Mail this coupon today. 



HANTSPORT, NOVA SCOTIA, BOP IPO 


Please provide me with details of the variety and costs of Royal 
CHINET food service products. 


NAME_ 

COMPANY or CAMP 
ADDRESS _ 


CITY_ 




arX 


PROV. 









Canadian campin'' association 
association dcs camps dn Canada 


SUITE 2 1606 AVENUE ROAD 
TORONTO ONTARIO M5M 3Z1 

VOL. 35, NO. 3 
AUTUMN 1983 
ISSN 008-3119 



THE SIGN 
OF A 

GOOD CAMP 



Hugh Babcock 
KETTLEBY, Ont. 
LOG 1J0 


DON’T WORRY!! 

The 1984 Publications Catalogue will be mailed 

to all members soon. 

You’ll be impressed with the many new books 

in the Catalogue... 

LEGACY TO A CAMPER 
COUNSELLOR IN TRAINING MANUAL 
SINGING FUN AND GAMES 
STAYING FOUND 
DECENTRALIZED CAMPING 
LEAD ON ... COUNSELLOR 
... and many more 

For more information contact 
CCA/ACC Bookstore 
1806 Avenue Road, Suite 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 
416-781-4717 


reonwcrc. 










