Canadian 

camping 


WOW! WHAT A GREAT PLACE TO CAMP! 

by Jack Pearse 



In the summer of 1949, I directed {oils id Cove |£gm p on the South Shore of 
Prin^i Edward Island on the beautiful Northumberland Strait. One day, Ivan Robinson 
andjkf '• ' - tf.e wa'erfroi.t at Holland Coye watching tb*= tide- come in and I recall 

rvafc saying, "What a great place to Camp!’ 1 

Twenty years later in* 1969 , Al Browning and ttslki • on a trail at Burry 

Heights Camp up the east coast from St. John' -3. The Newfoundland and Labrador 
Camping Association had just been born and we were excited about that. I was excited 
about the east coast of Newfoundland, too and I thought, "What a great place to camp! 

In the late winter of 1976, we took a bus tour from Quebec City to the gorgeous 
Montmorency Forest where, for the C.C.A. Annual Meeting, w,e joined delegates to 
Canada's first French Language Camping Conference. I sat beside Marg Pezderic on the 
bus and we agreed that the Montmorency Forest is a great, place to camp! 

Last March, Murray Wickware and I were driving to Ha^ifay following a Nova 
Scotia Camping meeting at Sydney and as we passed Bras d A Or JLake, the Cape Breton 
Highland and Canso Strait, I thought "What a great place to camp!" 

I have just returned from a tour of the four Western Provinces where camping 
is eurely alive and well and flourishing. In Manitoba, there was a great meeting 
witS. Punch Jackson, Shanley Parkinson and Sharon Gould as they outlined an ambitious 
plan for leadership development in the M.C.A. In June of our Centennial Year 1967, 
we opened up the new Bird's Hill Park north of Winnipeg. Twenty four thousand 
Guides, Brownies, Scouts and Cubs and I sang camp songs and I thought "What a great 
place to camp!" 

(cont. on page 3 ) 

f 

OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OFFICIELLE 

THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION / L’ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU CANADA 

SUITE 203 . 102 EGLINTON AVENUE EAST • TORONTO. ONTARIO M4P 1 El Vol. 29 No. 6 

telephone (416) 488-7345 December 1977 









A Director's Checklist 


JANUARY by Eanswythe Flynn 


A season for business details.... income 
tax forms and reports, revised camp fol¬ 
ders and forms; re-check new supplies of 
letterhead, envelopes statement forms. 

Order crests, penants, camp T-shirts, 
postcards, etc. 

Mail camp folders when they arrive from 
the printers. 

Arrange special programme for camp re¬ 
union: make attractive invitation and 
mail three weeks before the event. 

Prepare progress letter to campers, 
giving camps news about campers and 
staff. 

Engage staff, nurse and doctor for the 
summer-a-s soon- as-possible.—Have con- 
trats signed and sealed. 

Get last year's staff members together 
to ask for suggestions for the summer, 
special projects for campers, new ideas 
for programme, new canoe routes or out- 
trip hikes to new sites. 

Arrange a meeting with camp cook to 
check on additional food supplies, menu 
changes, any kitchen equipment in need 
of replacing. 

Arrange for out-of-town interviews,or 
send instructions and names of prospec¬ 
tive and former campers to representa¬ 
tive . 

FEBRUARY 

Arrange for staff attendance at Pro¬ 
vincial Camping Conferences. 

Check with in town and out-of-town 
schools regarding closing dates and 
arrange camp dates accordingly. 

Keep working on staff in terviews. Con¬ 
sult local Counsellor Placement Service. 


Review and prepare rules for counsellors, 
regarding duties, responsibilities, time 
off, behavior in camp and out of camp, 
supervision of campers and cabins, and 
discuss them with staff during interviews. 

Make plans for in—town counsellor training 

Make initial contacts with food suppliers 
and order early. Arrange with nearest 
greengrocer, milk supplier and bakery for 
all necessary summer deliveries. 

Get in touch with maintenance staff to 
see about necessary repairs to buildings 
or boats and any additional tent floors 
or cabins necessary for s umm er use. 


CANADIAN CAMPING 


is published 6 times a year by the 

■ Canadian Camping Association 
102 Eglinton Ave., E. # 203 
Toronto, Ontario M4P 1E1 

(416) 488-7345 

SUBSCRIPTION RATES 

1 year $5.00 
3 years $12.00 


COVER We have incorporated the cover of 
the "Canadian Camping" Magazine, 
Vol. 27 No. 1 to Vol. 28 No.3, designed 
by Violet Catlin, Graphics, 4 Canzone Dr., 
Toronto, into the front page of this and 
the previous six newsletters. 





WHAT A GREAT PLACE TO CAMP! , , _ n v 

(cont. from page 1 ) 


More than 1000 delegates attended the Christian Camping International Conference 
at the Banff Springs Hotel in Alberta - the next stop on my recent western tour. 

What an exciting and exhilerating experience that was! The fellowship, the singing, 
the worship, the dedication to camping gave me goose bumps. Lavern and Mrs. Jantz and 
I were walking along the Bow River at the Bow Falls during the C.C.I. Conference sur¬ 
rounded by the magnificence of Mount Rundle, the Fairholm Range, Cascade, Tunnel and 
Sulphur Mountains, truly breathtaking and I thought, ,r Wow - what a great place to 
camp!" 

Gary Luthy and Jean Funk organized camping meetings for us in Calgary and Edmon¬ 
ton. The Alberta Camping Association has lots of balls bouncing and we had a super 
A.C.A. Board Meeting. I stayed overnight with Gary at the Calgary Y.M.C.A. Camp aM, 
the next morning, I looked out at the spectacular, purple-toned bold face of Yamnuska. 
What a sight! And, I said to the magpie outside the door of my cabin, 'What a great 
place to camp!" From Bow Falls to Bold Face in 30 miles. 

As always, Grant and Lorna McKeen were most gracious hosts in Vancouver and it 
gave me "the other side of the mountain" lift to meet with the committed camping folk 
of B.C. John and Sue Hasell took me on a vigorous hike along the rocky north shore of 
Vancouver Harbour and as we looked out over the enormous expanse of the Pacific Ocean 
that leads to Hawaii, Japan, Australia, India, Newfoundland, Nova Scotia and Holland 
Cove Camp away out there, I thought, "Wow - what a great place to camp!" 

The next day Eileen Mayotte and I drove from Regina to Saskatoon for a meeting 
with Marg Pezderic and Ben Pickford to discuss Saskat¬ 
chewan camping. We were passing Blackstrap'lake and 
the famous man-made Blackstrap Mountain - the "Praire 
Pimple" - as an enormous full moon emerged on our right. 

On our left, was the most incredible sunset one could 
imagine with colours from the Cape Breton Highlands, 

Yamnuska's bold face and Pat Russel's very pretty dress 
which she wore at the B.B.C.A. meeting the previous- 
evening. Eileen and I were surrounded by 360 degrees 
of horizon for as far as we could see. "What a great 
place to camp!" 

I am home now and this past week, I visited one 
of my favorite camps in the ruggedly beautiful Muskoka 
area of Ontario. I sat on the dock at the waterfront 
feeling good all over about camping, about camping 
people, about campers, about camps and our impact on 
young lives and I thought - "What a great place to camp- 

CANADA!" 

Jack Pearse is the President of the Canadian Camping 
Association. 

$$ $ 



ALL CAMPERS' CLOTHING AND 
BELONGINGS 

should be marked for easy identification- 
losses are costly. 

CAMP LINEN AND EQUIPMENT, TOO, 
should be marked to avoid confusion 
and loss. 

NAMES OR NUMBERS CAN BE 
SUPPLIED. 

Order CASH'S NAME TAPES from 
department stores and other dealers — 
or direct from 

CASH'S 

CANADA LABELS LIMITED 

BOX 70, STATION S 
MONTREAL, QUEBEC 

PRINTED NAME PRICES 

6 doz. $3.20 9 doz. $3.65 

12doz. $4.50 24 doz. $5.50 

No C.O.D.s. Please mail cheque or 
money order. 

Please include appropriate 
Provincial Sales Tax. 


3 




DO YOU ALWAYS 

SAY 

WHAT YOU MEAN? 

WHAT YOU SAY AND 

WHAT YOU MEAN! 

I am interested to know what made 
you decide to go into camping, I 
should have thought a girl with 
your interests would have chosen ... 

Great Scott! How did I EVER ...? 

Perhaps I might just emphasize again 
a very important point which we dis¬ 
cussed at our last staff meeting. 

HOW often do I have to tell you? 

There are of course many ways of 


handling a problem like this. We 
have found that the following methods 
work rather well ... 

Do it my way, will you! 

You will understand, I am sure, that 
there are certain matters of camp 


policy which must be decided by the 


camp director. 

Who ' s running this' camp anyway?' ' s 

It is very difficult for heads of ac¬ 
tivities to maintain their high 
teaching standards unless assisting 

Have you ever been on time for any- 

staff are punctual at all times. 

thing? 

Perhaps we might make an effort, as 
time is a little short, to confine 
our attentions to one or two impor- 


tant things which have come up. 

Let me do the talking! 

I am sure you will realize that it is 
difficult for any group of women to 
live happily together for eight weeks 
unless we all make an effort to co¬ 
operate in every way. 

DO stop griping! 

You have learned a great deal from 
your summer with us, I am sure. 

Perhaps another year you might find it 
challenging to try a (a) larger, (b) 
smaller, (c) different, (d) American 
camp. 

Thank heavens you won't be back! 


4 





here sare ea few ideas 


During the coining months, Camp Directors will be selecting their staffs for 
the summer ahead. This is one of the most important jobs they will have all year. 
The success of the summer depends on making good decisions. Here are some thoughts, 
new and old, which, might prove of value. 

Though many new members of staff will be selected from the campers of previous 
summers, some will be new. Experience has shown that previous camp experience and 
a high degree of skill in camp activities are not always necessary requisites for a j 
person to be a member of your staff. 

PERSONAL INTERVIEWS : are of great value. Granted the situation is artificial - in- : 
terviewing a potential member of staff in an urban setting is difficult in its own 
right as directors are out of their natural environment. Add to this the fact that 
the interviewee and the interviewer are both trying to project an "image of them¬ 
selves", it's a wonder that they work as well as they do. However, first impres¬ 
sions often do have a way of being pretty accurate. Be objective, don't take some¬ 
one on staff merely because they are "looking good." 

PERSONALITY : a Camp can handle a limited, number of "characters." "Characters" are 1 
essential for "colour", they are like the paint on -the paddle. The- blade, however, 
is what does the work and most members of your staff will be a part of the blade... j 
flexible, strong, ready to work hard when necessary, able to keep a steady stroke i 
and, not demanding attention when not in use. If you can find people for your staff j 
who have an inner strength and confidence — who are courteous and sensitive about j 
hurting other peoples' egos — who consider themselves a part of a whole — who 
think that contruction has merit over destruction — who prefer forgiveness to feu¬ 
ding and indulgence to violence, then you will have chosen well and your campers 
will have a super summer. 

SELF-CONFIDENCE: Is your candidate a person who has an aura of self-confidence? 
"Nothing succeeds like success." If the applicant feels that the job is one which 
he can handle ably this is important. A little concern and a little humility are 
good too, but there must be some assurance that the applicant feels comfortable 
with himself if he is to create a similar feeling in others. 

FRIENDLINESS : Is the applicant a person who appears to be cheerful and looking for¬ 
ward to having new experiences. Nho wants a member of staff parading around giving 
the impression of being "the Creator's gift to camping" or reliving an excellent 
imitation of Chief Thundercloud? 

FLEXIBILITY ; How flexible is the applicant? Does he accept ideas easily? Does he 
understand the program and purposes of your camp and agree with them? Is he open- 
minded enough to realize that each summer is different and each group of children 
will show needs different from all the others? 

LEADERSHIP : One of the most important questions which you can ask yourself when 
■ _(cont. on page 6 ) 



HIRING YOUR STAFF 

(cont. from page 5 ) 

making a decision about hiring is..."How would I feel about letting this person take 
a group of my campers on a trip?" If you are worried now — imagine how you would 
feel if you hired the person for the summer! It is essential that your members of 
staff have the potential to meet emergency situations with intelligence, maturity 
and self confidence. Ask the applicant specific questions about possible emergent 
situations, for example: "What would you do if one of your campers was missing when 
you woke up in the morning?" or "Suppose you broke your leg on a trip fifty miles 
from camp. What would you do?" 

CHEERFULNESS : Most campers come to camp to have fun. Counsellors who appear to have 
a fondness for "powertripping" do not often add to the good times of their campers. 
Try to find someone who likes working with his campers, a ir WS" person rather than a 
"THEY" person. 

REFERENCES : are valuable is you know the reputation of the referee. Some of those 
"saints in script" you may read of in letters of reference don't turn out that way 
on the job. PHONE one of the referees if you want more information in confidence. 

Ask the questions you want answered. Evaluate the referee, then your applicant. 

AUTOBIOGRAPHIES : These can be helpful in determining attitudes and interests. If an 
autobiography can be sent so that it may be read before the interview it might make 
it easier for both parties. An autobiography gives the applicant a chance to write 
a considered statement in familiar surroundings. Be sure to keep the autobiographies 
of those you hire as they are often useful for reference during the summer. 

STAFF INTERVIEW EVALUATION , ,, _ , „ 


RATING 


APPEARANCE 


COMPOSURE 


MATURITY 


SELF-CONFIDENCE 


FRANKNESS 


LEADERSHIP POTENTIAL 


EXPERIENCE WITH CHILDREN 


6 




HIRING YOUR STAFF 

—— (cont. from page 6 ) 

RATINGS : Sometimes a simple rating system can be of value in the final determinatior 
regarding whether of not you hire a person. Using the same basic list for various 

applicants will give you a way of comparing as well as a record of your ability to 

interview. (Look at the ratings during the summer and compare your rating then to 

the initial interview.) You will probably want to develop your own set of notes and 

rating system, but the chart on the preceeding page could be of value as a starter. 
Keep it in front of you to make notes during the interview. Rate the applicant on a 
scale of one to ten. After each heading develop your own set of questions to help 
you make an accurate evaluation. 

for example: 

(5) "Concern for Others" 

(a) What groups or organizations have you worked for? 

(b) Do you have any brothers or sisters? If so, how do you relate to 
one another? 

Questions such as these will help give you the information you want and will help to 
avoid awkward pauses and questions which may be irrelevant. 

These are a few of the many characteristics you may want to include in an e- 
valuation sheet of your own. Other characteristics such as patience, fairness, sense 
of humour, honesty, imagination, reliability, enthusiasm and a high set of personal 
standards are some others which you may wish to add to your list. 

The future of your camp and, of camping in Canada depends on the quality of 
leaders selected for our camp staffs. "* 

"The final test of a leader is that he leaves behind him in others the 
conviction and will to carry on... the genius of a good leader Is to 
leave behind him a situation which common sense, without the grace of 
genius can deal with successfully." 

Walter Lippman 


Wanted 

Wilderness Program Director 
Y.M.C.A. Camp Stephens 
May 1st - September 30th, 1978 

Also positions available for canoe 
trippers and counsellors. 

For more information contact: 

Mr. Jim Leggat 
Department of Camping and 
Outdoor Education 
301 Vaughan Street 
Winnipeg, Manitoba R3B 2N7 


ROYAL LIFE SAVING SOCIETY CANADA 

The RLSSC recently convened a Natioanl 
Symposium entitled "Alcohol & Aquatics", 
a forum committed to explore the extent 
of and relationship between the consump¬ 
tion of alcoholic beverages and aqautic 
accidents and fatalities. 

The Proceedings of the Symposium have 
been published and are available from: 

Royal Life Saving Society Canada 
550 Church Street 
Toronto, Ont. M4Y 2E1 

Price: $3.50 plus 500 handling 


7 






r* * 

CALENDAR OF EVENTS 



JANUARY 

1978 

JANVIER APRIL 

1978 

AVRIL 


16 Envoi de renseignements touchant les 


OCA Profession Leadership Develop- 

stages des federations sportives et 


ment Weekend, Phase III 

stages organises par l'Association 

7-9 

Seminar des directeurs de camps 

17 Section francais - Executif - Con- 

11 

OCA Annual Meeting at Ont. Soc. of 

seil d'administration 


Crippled Children, Toronto, Ontario 

18 Executif Provincial - Reunion du 

12 

Executif - Section francais - Con- 

Conseil Provincial 


seil d’administration 

19-22 CCA National Conference, Geneva 

19 

Souper-causerie - Region de Quebec 

Park, Ontario 

20,21 CCA Board Meeting and Annual Meeting! 

22-23 CCA Board Meeting, Camp Tawingo, 


■ in Manitoba | 

Huntsville, Ontario 

21-23 MCA Conference 1 

OCA Open Meeting 



26 BCCA Annual General Meeting 

MAY 

1978 MAI 

27 MCA Annual General Meeting 

1 

Date limite pour payer cotisation 

27-29 OCA Regional Campference, Sault 

6 

OCA Counsellor Conference, Centen- 

Ste. Marie, Ontario 


nial College, Toronto, Ontario 

30 Souper-causerie - Region de Mont- 


SCA Spring Conference and Annual 

real theme "Plein air - publicite 


Meeting - Prince Albert National 

depliants" 


Park, Saskatchewan 

r» 

10 ‘ 

Assemblee generale arinuelle - Sect.’ 

' ! 

> < 


fran . j 

FEBRUARY 1978 FEVRIER 



3-5 Fin de semaine d"Animation (Region 

12-14. ACQ. Stage de olein air H 



de Quebec 

17 

ACQ-QCA Reunion Conseil Provincial 

16-18 OCA Conference, Royal York Hotel, 

19-22 NSCA Leadership Training Weekend, j 

Toronto, Ontario 


Camp Hillis. West Paradise, Annapolis 



CoDunty, Nova Scotia 

22 Reunion Conseil Provincial 



l * 

26-28 ACQ Stage de plein air . . 

23 Souper-causerie - Region de Mont- 



real theme "Recrutement - mode de 


- > 


selection" 




28-3 March - American Camping Association 




Convention, Anaheim, California 


They say the answer to 




your problems is just 


MARCH 1978 - MARS 


around the corner. 


Feb 28 - March 3 ACA Convention, Anaheim 


Why not take a walk and 


2-9 ACQ-QCA semaine de -Camps 


find out. 


15 Executif - Section francais - Reu- 


^7 


nion Conseil Provincial 


m 

16 Souper-causerie - Region de Mont- 


Pdimupacnan e 

real theme "formulaires - Mecanismes 


, Walk a block.Today. 

de controle" 


V- — > 


g 











Happy Trails 

Pere Paul 

It is with truly mixed feelings that 
Canadian Camping and Canadian campers hid 
farewell to C.C.A. Vice-President, Abbe 
Paul Belanger. 

We are saddened because we will miss 
Paul Belanger. We will miss him at Camp 
Keno. We will miss him in the Association 
des Camps du Quebec. We will miss him 
on the French Language Camping Committees. 
We will miss him and his nationwide impact 
as C.C.A. Vice-President. In all parts of 
Canada, we will miss, as we remember fond¬ 
ly, his rousing, colourful, exciting 
soirees. 

Our mixed feelings come out of our joy 
and admiration, that Paul has been asked 
to serve God in a four-year ministry in 
Rome, Italy as an Assistant General for 
his religious order - the Maristes. 

In his new assignment he is responsible 
for the Maristes' religious and education¬ 
al emphasis in Quebec, New England and 
France. What a choice for the Church to 
make! We knew all along about Paul's Out¬ 
standing leadership, didn't we? 

In 1964) Paul founded Camp Ecole Keno 
which is located approximately 60 miles 
northwest of Quebec City. He has been a 
keen member of the Provincial Board of the 
Quebec Camping Association, President of 
the Association des Camps du Quebec, the 
A.C.Q. delegate to the Federation de Canot 

I Camping, the first President of the French 
language Camping Committee of the C.C.A. 
and Vice-President of the C.C.A. 

He was chairman of the first Canadian 
Conference on French Language Camping at 
the Montmorency Forest in April 1976. 

When the C.C.A. Board was struggling 
with the revision of our constitution at 
a meeting in Regina in 1971, it was Paul 
Belanger who convinced us in his deli- 
U cately kind and inimitable way that we 
| ought to give warm recognition to our 
I two languages in the C.C.A. We became 


convinced, committed and consituted and, 
out of the Regina meeting, emerged Le 
Comite des Camps Francois and a new consti¬ 
tution with this stated purpose - "To pro¬ 
mote the development of Camping in Canada 
with the highest ideals and traditions of 
both language groups consistent with the 
national heritage of Canada." 

Paul, as you embark on your new life 
and service in Italy, we in Canadian 
Camping will hold you in our hearts with 
grateful thanks as we wish you God-speed 
and happy trails. 

"There is a destiny that makes us 

brothers, 

None goes his way alone 

All that we give into the lives of 

others, 

Comes back into our own." 


PAUL BELANGER 

y 

Paul Belanger, figure bien connue dans 
1 'Empire des bois et des bles, "a mari 
usque ad mare", s'affiche maintenant dans 
le monde international. Sa nomination, a 
Rome comme Conseiller General de la Societe 
de Marie, l'arrache a 1'Association des 
Camps du Canada, a 1'Association des Camps 
du Quebec, au Camp-Ecole-Keno, ce bebe qui 
fait ses premiers pas dans les sentiers 
battus des ancetres en camping. Sur un 
plateau d'argent, des milliers de travail- 
leurs en loisirs semblent l'offrir, a re¬ 
gret, a un monde lointain et quasi etranger 
Paul, semblable a un heros epique en quete 
de grands espaces, quitte les patelins 
aimes, que dis-je, cheris de sa personne, 
les camps se son pays, pour une aventure, 
de prime abord, etonnante, presque feerique 
qui n'a aucun lien direct avec les aven- 
tures fantastiques a travers bois, lacs et 
rivieres qu'il a conquis avec fierte. 

Paul traverse maintenant les mers et les 
oceans comme un geant ouvre a l'air des 
impressionnantes montagnes laurentiennes 
qu'il a hume avec tant d'appetit. Le vi¬ 
sage tourne vers la nature qui 1'a petri, 
vers les copains qu'il a soutenus et en¬ 
courages grace a un dynamisme legitime- 

(cont. on page 10 ) 


9 



















PAUL BELANGER 

(cont. from page 9) 

ment enviable, Paul fait figure de pro- 
phete en loisirs dont la marque profonde 
de son amitie restera longtemps gravee 
dans le coeur de ses compatriotes cana- 
diens. 

A titre de vice-president des Camps du 
Canada, il aspirait avec noblesse a la 
presidence pour servir las cause si chere 
des defenseurs du "Plein Air" dans notre 
patrie. La Belle Province lui reconnais-, 
sait les dons de leader au sein du Conseil 
d'administration de 1'Association des 
Camps du Quebec. II animait avec sagacite 
a titre de president de la Section fran 
caise, les directeurs des camps franqais 
qui se sentaient souleves par une vague 
de fond au cri vibrant de foi et d'espe- 
rance en la nature, source d'interiorite. 

Peut-on, non sans un chagrin mal dis- 
| simule’, de laisser lecher d'autres rives, 
vases antiques ciseles au coeur de hu- 
manite, et ne pas dire "MERCI" pour 
1 'oeuvre titanesque, erigee et sublimee 
avec tant d'ardeur et da devouement ? 
Canadiens-franqais ! Canadiens-anglais ! 
une page d'histoire vient de tourner, 
mais le verso ne peut rester sans suite. 
Paul nous dit, tout simplement: "Cor.tinuez 
a ecrire l'histoire merveilleuse des Camps 
de mon pays, en chantant ALOUETTESKI". 

Rosaire Poussard 


Cross 

Canada 

Checkup 

Some changes on the C.C.A. Board, 
made necessary by Paul Belanger's new 
posting are; Eileen Mayotte of Saskat¬ 
chewan, has accepted the position of 
Vice-President and Jane McCutcheon of 
Ontario replaces her as Secretary. 

(Watch for pictures and a brief 
profile of all the Executive in the next 
issue.) 


M. Rene Rousseau, Director of Camp 
Edphy, 14e avenue, Val-Morin, Quebec is 
the new President of the Association des 
Camps du Quebec. ! 

The British Columbia Camping Associ- 
tion has a new Field Co-ordinator, Miss ; 
Nancy Greig. 

Paul Belanger was honoured at a dinner 
given by the ACQ-QCA in Quebec City on 
November 24, 1977. 

Jocelyn Palm, President of the O.C.A. * 
is the new owner and director of Camp 
Glen Bernard, Sundridge, Ontario. 

The Annual Meeting of the Nova Scotia 
Camping Association was held at the 
Downsview Motel in Sackville on Dec. 2&3. 

As a result of the Task Force on 
Camping completed in the spring of this 
year, the C.C.A. decided to continue 
with some of its committees and projects | 
from past years and to establish some new! 
ones. The following have accepted the 1 
chairmanship of the C.C.A. Committees and| 


8 Projects for 

1977-78. 

- ■ 

i COMMITTEES 

Archives 

Adele Ebbs 

Ontario 

French Lang. 

Rosaire Corbin 

Quebec 

Leadership Tr 

. Jean Funk 

Alberta 

1 Liaison with 
• Nat. Agencies Clare Magee 

Ontario 

Outdoor Ed. 

Bob Cameron 

New Bruns. 

Prof. Devel. 

Lome Bowering 

B.C. 

Publications 

Punch Jackson 

Manitoba 

Pub. Rel. 

Derek Walsh 

Quebec 

| PROJECTS 
'Nat. and In- 
,,terna. Confs. 
iNewsletter 

John Latimer 

Ontario 

Brian Blackstook 

Ontario 

Oral History 

Jay Haddad 

Ontario 

Skill Schools 

Jim Winter 

Xfld & Lab. 

Woodsmanship 

Kirk Wipper 

Ontario 


When you steal from one author 
it’s plagiarism, if you steal from 
1 many, it’s research.” 

— wilson mizner 


10 



PUBLICATIONS 


CANOEING 


MALOS COMPLETE GUIDE 
TO CANOEING AND CANOE 
CAMPING-John Malo This 
most authoritative and informa¬ 
tive book is an indispensable 
reference for beginner and sea¬ 
soned outdoorsman alike 
Packed with pictures, diagrams, 
historical background, tech¬ 
nical know-how, and glossary 
278p. Softbound Collier, 1969 
$2-95 





lusssil 


TEACHING RIDING AT SUM¬ 
MER CAMP —Steven D. Price. 
This book is a comprehensive 
guide to the accomplished rider 
but inexperienced teacher on 
the fundamentals of managing 
a camp stable and teaching 
children the basics of good 
horsemanship The author cov¬ 
ers all the aspects of a success¬ 
ful summer on horseback for 
teacher and pupil alike. Herein 
is detailed advice on how to 
conduct programs for begin¬ 
ner, intermediate and advanced 
riders, and a great variety of 
special events programs, as 
well 64p Softbound The 
Stephen Greene Press, 1971 

$1.95 


LEARN TO SWIM-Frank Waterman This clear, to-the- 
point manual outlines a series of lessons and exercises 
specially designed to increase confidence and skill in 
the wafer 160p Softbound Funk & Wagnalls, 1968 

S/.9S 


WOODCRAFT — "Nessmuk" Sears The original wood¬ 
craft book-a reprint 101 p Softbound Dover, 1963 Sf-W 



BASIC RIVER CANOEING - 

Robert E. McNair The complete 
manual ofwhitewater canoeing. 

Begins where flat water ca¬ 
noeing books end and simply 
and concisely describes how 
and why the components of 
wild water, canoe and paddle 
equal high adventure, 104p. 
Softbound. ACA, 1969 $2.00 





A CAMP DIRECTOR TRAINS HIS OWN STAFF- Catherine 
T. Hammett. Suggestions for pre-camp and in-camp 
training Excellent and definite information which will be 
found most useful by camp directors 32p Softbound 
ACA _ 

CAMP JOB DESCRIPTIONS-ACA National Leadership 
Committee. Suggested job descriptions for basic camp 
positions. 5 .50 


Send orders PRE-PAID to; 
PLEASE PRINT 


C.C.A. Publications, 102 Eglinton Ave., E. Suite 203 
Toronto, Ontario M4P 1E1 


Title 


Price 


Total 


lAddress 


IProvinc e 


IPostal Code 


Total Amount enclosed 


11 








Maintenance 


ARE YOU REALLY READY FOR WINTER? 


ONE LAST TRIP TO MAKE SURE? 


- here are a few ideas which might help 


- Leave the top of your piano open to allow the dampness out. 

- Put a few mothballs on mattresses, the mice don't like the smell and will 
usually stay away. 

- Take off the screens, there's no point in letting 8 months of weather get at 
them and they will last about three times longer. 

- Put some wood ashes down the pits of the outhouses, this helps lower the "mass". 

- Cover the grills of your stoves with wax paper to avoid rust. 

- Your turned off walk-in refrigerator is a great place to grow MOLD! Don't for¬ 
get to leave the doors OPEN. 

- Empty clothes washers and dryers are good animal-free storage areas. 

- Cover uphostered furniture with sheets to save wear on and color of the fabric 
caused by the sun. 

- Avoid storing canoes flat on the floor because they may warp - put them up on 
benches or rafters so that both gunwales are used to support the canoe. 

- Stuffed mattresses flatten out if you pile them high (also combustion hazard) - 
so leave them in their own cabin. 







6lie-800 NSSI 




131 cUlAI OIHVJLNO ‘OINOHOX 
1SV3 3 n N 3 A V N01NI393 ZOl 'EOZ 311133 


vmJotvHVsnosaf V ® 1 svmsrsio 












