



fN 


b 


OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OFFICIELLE 



THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION L'ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU CANADA 


Spring Edition, 1973, edition du printemps 

















































Dear Mommy & Daddy, 


You told me to drop you a line, so_ I guess 

you don't think that's very funny, but I did and 
so did my new friend Suzie. She's my friend now, 
but she wasn't yesterday because she hurt me. 

It was all her fault; when Miss Smith was showing 
us all how to put a tent up, Suzie was supposed 
to hammer in the wedge for the loop for the tent ropes and the hammer 
hit me in the chin. Dumb Suzie! 



Miss Smith said "Calm Down" just like you say, Mommy. And then we went to the 
Dentist in town. My tooth was broken and had to come out. I can't eat any of the peanut 
brittle you sent; it was yellow anyway. 


Miss Smith says "Don't forget to tell your parents that the camp has Camp-Guard 
and Camp-Guard will take care of the Dentist's bills." 


So that's what I'm doing at camp. I don't like Suzie again because 
sore. 


mv mouth is still 


Love Janie 

xxxxxxxxxx 


CAMP-GUARD IS UNDERWRITTEN BY 

* m C/\/A /assurance 

CNA ASSURANCE COMPANY- HEAD OFFICE 160 BLOOR 
STREET EAST • TORONTO • CANADA - AFFILIATED 
WITH CANADIAN PREMIER LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY 

BROKERAGE DIVISION 


VANCOUVER • CALGARY • EDMONTON • SASKATOON • WINNIPEG • HAMILTON • TORONTO • MONTREAL • QUEBEC CITY • HALIFAX 








table of contents-sommaire 


Vol. 25 No. 3 

Spring Edition 1973 edition du printemps 


CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 
Suite 203, 102 Eglinton Ave. East 
Toronto, Ontario M4P 1E1, Canada 

Honorary President Presidente honoraire 
Mary S. Edgar 

President President 

John Latimer, 102 Eglinton Ave. E., 
Suite 203, Toronto, Ont. M4P 1E1 
Regional Vice-Presidents 

Vice-Presidents regionaux 

John Hasell, 1616 W. 7th Ave. 
Vancouver, B.C. 

Eileen Mayotte, 87 Coldwell Rd., 
Regina, Sask. 

Jack Pearse, 274 Shakespeare Dr., 
Waterloo, Ont. 

Robert Lazanik, 5165 Sherbrooke St. W. 
Suite 316, Montreal 260, Que. 

Robert Cameron, Recreation & Parks Dept., 
City Hall, Main St., Moncton, N.B. 
Secretary Secretaire 

Jay Haddad, 1685 Somme Ave., 
Windsor, Ont. 

Treasurer Tresorier 

Bryan Graham, McDonald Currie & Co., 
120 Adelaide St. W., Toronto, Ont. 

Past President L'ex-president 

Rev. David Hartry, 

Diocese of Nassau of the Bahamas 
P.O. Box N107, Nassau, N.P., Bahamas 
Committee Chairmen Presidents des comites 
Canadian Camping Magazine 
Bill Henderson, 1162 Bay Street 
Toronto 181, Ont. 

National Camping Day 
Doug Dent, 145 Lincoln Road, 
Waterloo, Ont. 

Standards 

Hank Roessingh, 540 — 49 Ave. S.W., 
Calgary 6, Alta. 

Fund Raising 

Grant McKeen, 1309 McLean Drive, 
Vancouver 6, B.C. 

Canoe Schools 
Claude Cousineau, 

School of Physical Education & Recreation, 
University of Ottawa, Ottawa KIN 6N5, Ont. 
Constitutional Task Force 
Stanley Wild, 740 Avenue Road, 
Toronto 7, Ont. 

Publications 
Brian Blackstock, 

Mazinaw Lake Outdoor Education Centre, 
Cloyne, Ont. 

Outdoor Education 
Robert Cameron, 

Recreation and Parks Dept., City Hall, 
Main St., Moncton, N.B. 

Editorial Committee Comite de redaction 
Bill Henderson (Chairman), Bob Attfield 
Brian Blackstock, Jean Darrach, 
Eanswythe Flynn, Bruno Morawetz, 
Jocelyn Palm, Ann Prewitt, Paul Rush ton, 
Kirk Wipper 


CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 
Published 4 times a year 
By The Canadian Camping Association 

Subscription rates: $3 - 1 year, $8-3 years 
(Distributed free to members) 

$1 - a single copy 


Editor editrice 

Helen E. Stewart 
Apt. 510, 240 Markland Drive 
Etobicoke, Ontario M9C 1R3 
(416) 621-3791 

Advertising Manager chef de la publicite 
Paul Rushton 


A MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT 
by John Latimer 

HAVE YOU HEARD? DO YOU KNOW? 
by Helen Stewart 

OUR FRIENDS-THE INDIANS .... 
by Jack Eastaugh 

NATIONAL CAMPING DAY. 


WATCH THOSE POCKET ROCKETS! 
by Paul Rush ton 

OUTDOOR COOKERY. 

by Helen Stewart 

DO IT NOW!. 

by Eanswythe Flynn 

CLASSIFIED ADS. 


Cover 


Provincial Offices Bureaux provinciaux 

B.C. Camping Association — 1309 McLean 
Drive, Vancouver 6, B.C. (Grant McKeen, 
Pres.). 

Alberta Camping Association — 2402 — 
27 St., S.W. Calgary, Alta. T3E 2G3 (Jan 
James, Pres.). 

Saskatchewan Camping Association — P.O. 
Eox 823, Regina, Sask. (Eileen Mayotte, 
Pres.). 

Manitoba Camping Association — 217-267 
Edmonton Street, Winnipeg, Manitoba 
R3C 1S2 (Arnold Cohen, Pres.). 

Ontario Camping Association — 102 Eglinton 
Ave. East, Suite 203, Toronto, Ont. 
M4P 1E1 (Ron Johnstone, Pres.). 

L'association des camps du Quebec, and 
Quebec Camping Association — 952 


3 


4 


5 


7 


15 


16 


17 


18 


Couverture 


Cherrier St., Montreal, Quebec (Robert 
Lazanik, pres.). 

English section: 2233 Belgrave Ave., 
Montreal 261, Que. (Zave Ettinger, Pres.). 
Section frangaise: 952 rue Cherrier, 
Montreal, Que. (Rev. Pere Rosaire 
Corbin, pres.). 

Nova Scotia Camping Association — P.O. 
Box 3024, Halifax South, N.S. (Rev. 
David Boston, Pres.). 

New Brunswick Camping Association — 
Box 373, Fredericton, N.B. (Tim Easley, 
Pres.). 

Newfoundland & Labrador Camping Associ¬ 
ation — c/o Lundrigan's Ltd., Riverside 
Drive, Cornerbrook, Nfld. (Frank 
Jennings, Pres.). 


THE CHALLENGE IN CAMPING WITH YOUTH . 8 

by Ron Johnstone 

TIPS . 9 

by Helen Stewart 

CAMPING PUBLICATIONS . 10,11 

Publications Service, Canadian Camping Association 

MEDICAL SUPPLIES FOR THE CAMP INFIRMARY . 13 

by J. Harry Ebbs, M.D., F.R.C.P. 

CAMPERS SHOULD BE PERMITTED TO "SHOP" IN THE TUCK SHOP . . 14 
by W. Bertram Danson 


Photographs Courtesy of Jay Haddad 


1 
















NATIONAL GROCERS COMPANY LIMITED 


Wholesale Distributors 


FRUITS • VEGETABLES • BUTTER • CHEESE • EGGS 
FROZEN FOODS • GENERAL GROCERY PRODUCTS 


23 BRANCHES IN ONTARIO 


National Groceries Company, Limited, operate 23 distributing warehouses throughout the Province of 
Ontario, ready at all times to serve the camping trade with prompt deliveries. 


"Belleville 
"Bramalea 
"Chatham 
Cochrane 
Gore Bay 
"Hamilton 
Kapuskasing 


Warehouses located at: 

"Kingston 
"Kitchener 
"London 
New Liskeard 
"Niagara Falls 
"Orillia 
"Oshawa 
"Ottawa 


Owen Sound 
"Pembroke 
"Peterborough 
"Sarnia 

"Sault Ste. Marie 
"Sudbury 
"Timmins 
"Windsor 


HEAD OFFICE: 32 Front St. West, Toronto 

Cash and Carry Warehouses at points marked " 


FUN PADDLEBOARD 


□ Designed for rescue 

□ Designed for safety 

□ Designed for fun 


□ Rescue with it 

□ Teach with it 

□ Play with it 


□ Fibreglass — no maintenance 

□ 12' 6" long — 45 lbs. 

□ $150.00+ P.S.T. 


ORDER FROM: The Royal Life Saving Society Canada 

559 Jarvis Street, Toronto, Ontario M4Y 2J1 

















A Message from the President 



Message du President 



When camping people meet together, as many of us recently did 
at Geneva Park, it becomes more and more obvious that our future 
is, indeed, very promising. While it is true that some camps are dos¬ 
ing and many are facing registration difficulties, we see in Canada 
that many new camps are opening . . . and that more children are 
going to camp. Mind you, we have a long way to go, and we have a 
great deal of hard work ahead of us, but because of the many new, 
dynamic, exciting people who are becoming involved, / cannot help 
but look at camping in a very optimistic light. 

There are many challenges which we must realistically face — 
potential campers have many more alternatives than they did even 
ten years ago; costs are higher; staff members can travel and hitch¬ 
hike much more easily than they could a few years back; parents, 
newspapers, TV and radio personnel still do not fully appreciate the 
unique value of an organized camping experience for a child (even 
advertisers regard us as something pre-historic — witness the recent 
headache remedy advertisement with what / consider to be the old- 
fashioned cap and whistle!); the needs of children and staff are 
changing (are we aware of this fact of life?) . . . and the list could go 
on and on! The prophets of doom will always be with us — but if we 
work and share together, and if we face camping with a 1973 atti¬ 
tude . . . and not a 1963 attitude, we are going to win! 

I am convinced that we must keep 'up to date' and this feeling 
became strengthened at the Geneva Park Workshop. This is not 
necessarily done through gimmicks . . .but through a continuing and 
on-going knowledge of the society around us. If we continue to 
operate our camps as we did ten years ago then / do see a real threat. 
It is true that for stability and strength, certain traditions must be 
maintained — but they must make sense, and if they don't, we must 
be flexible and unafraid of change. 

When I first started to direct a Camp, it was my conviction that 
in order to maintain control and strong leadership / must be as strong 
as the proverbial Oak. / had to stick to clearly defined goals and 
policies. / had the misguided thought that, if I changed, / would be 
considered weak and ineffective. But camping must change — just as 
some of the attitudes and practices of our campers and staff change. 
Soon I came to realize that my 'strength' became a liability, but 
fortunately / was then able to realize that / could still be a good 
Director by being flexible . . . more like the willow - able to bend! 

Throughout the next two or three months we will be completing 
plans to staff our camps. No doubt we will be looking for young men 
and women who have a keen desire to work with, and a love for 
children. We need staff members who are loyal, fun, exciting, imagi¬ 
native, mature, responsible and warm. And surely one other criteria 
should be the ability to bend and be flexible. 

Many of we adults are still unsure of our precise goals and pur¬ 
poses, so why must we expect our staff members to be like the Oak- 
strong and unchanging? To me, this inconsistency often holds us 
back from hiring some of the young dynamic people who, although 
still experiencing frustration, confusion and bewilderment, could be 
the backbone to providing a great camping experience for our camp¬ 
ers. Many of these people are the very same individuals who will 
provide the feeling and spirit which is so necessary to keep our 
camps thriving. It's not the activities which will keep us in busi¬ 
ness . . . it's not the facilities . . . it's the people, and if we don't find 
and attract the young men and women who bring this feeling and 
warmth and loyalty into our camps, then indeed we are threatened! 


Lorsque les gens des camps se rencontrent, comme cela s'est fait 
recemment a Geneva Park, il devient de plus en plus evident que 
I'avenir des camps est tres prometteur. Alors que plusieurs camps se 
ferment et que d'autres font face a des difficultes d'inscription de 
campeurs, nous voyons, au Canada, plusieurs nouveaux camps ouvrir 
leurs portes . . . et plus d'enfants beneficier des camps. Remarquez 
bien que nous avons encore une longue route a parcourir et un dur 
labeur a accomplir; ces nouvelles personnes dynamiques et embal- 
lantes qui s'impliquent de plus en plus dans notre organisme, je ne 


peux m'empecher de voir dans notre monde des camps une 
lueur d'espoir. 

Plusieurs defis s'offrent maintenant a nous et nous devons les 
envisager de fagon realiste . . . tous ces jeunes qui pourraient etre des 
campeurs et qui ont maintenant tant de choix qu'ils n'avaient pas il 
y a dix (10) ans. Les couts maintenant plus eleves; ces jeunes qui 
pourraient etre membres de personnel qui peuvent maintenant 
voyager ou ''faire du pouce" beaucoup plus facilement qu'ils le 
pouvaient il y a quelques annees; memo des parents, des journalistes 
de la radio, de la television, de I'information ecrite, n'ont pas encore 
trouve la valeur unique que I'experience de la vie de camp peut offrir 
au campeur (meme des annonceurs nous depeignent comme des etres 
prehistoriques —qu'il nous suffise de citer ce commercial concernant 
des comprimes contre des maux de tete, il lustre par une monitrice-a- 
sifflet-et-a-casquette, quel style!); les besoins des enfants et du per¬ 
sonnel changent (sommes-nous conscients de cette situation?) . . . et 
notre liste pourrait s'allonger encore . . . Les prophetes de malheur 
seront toujours avec nous — cependant, si nous travaillons et parta- 
geons ensemble et si nous savons faire face a la realite des camps avec 
une attitude de 1973 et non avec une attitude de 1963, alors nous 
irons de I'avant. 

Je suis convaincu que nous devons sans cesse nous renouveller et 
nous maintenir a jour; ce sentiment est devenu de plus en plus fort a 
la suite de I'atelier de travail que nous avons eu a Geneva Park. Ceci 
ne se fera pas par des trouvailles, des artifices . . . mais par une con- 
naissance plus approfondie et continue de la societe qui nous entoure. 
Si nous continuons a diriger nos camps comme jous le faisions il y a 
dix (10) ans, alors j'y vois un reel danger. S'il est vrai, que pour con- 
server la stability et la force nous devons maintenir certaines tradi¬ 
tions, nous devons aussi voir a ce qu'elles conservent leur sens et 
nous-meme, conserver une certaine flexibility et une securite dans 
le changement. 

Lors de mes debuts comme directeur de camp, j'avais la convic¬ 
tion que pour maintenir I'ordre, la controle et un bon leadership, je 
devais etre aussi fort que le chene. Je devais conserver et definir bien 
clairement mes objectifs et mes politiques. J'avais la mauvaise pensee 
que s'il m'advenait de changer quelque chose, je serais alors considere 
faible et inefficace. Cependant, les camps doivent changer — Tout 
comme les attitudes et les fagons de faire de nos campeurs et des 
membres de notre personnel changent. Bientot j'en suis venu a reali- 
ser que me force devenait un engagement, et heureusement j'etais 
alors capable de realiser que je pouvais aussi etre un bon directeur 
tout en etant plus souple et tout comme le roseau — capable 
de flechir! 

Au cours des deux ou trois prochains mois, nous completerons la 
planification dans I'engagement du personnel de nos camps. Nous 
chercherons alors sans I'ombre d'un doute a retrouver les jeunes gens 
qui manifesteront un sain desir de travailler et d'aimer les enfants. 
Nos besoins iront vers les membres du personnel qui sont loyaux, 
capables de plaisir, de joie, emballants et imaginatifs, responsables, 
capables d'amitie et de maturity envers les campeurs. Un autre cri- 
tere sera probablement ('adaptation et la souplesse du personnel. 

Plusieurs d'entre nous sont encore peu surs de la precision de 
leurs objectifs et de leurs principes, mais pourquoi alors devons-nous 
nous attendre a ce que les membres de notre personnel soient comme 
le chene, fort et immuable? En ce qui me concerne, je crois que cet 
illogisme nous empeche souvent d'engager des jeunes gens dyna¬ 
miques qui, alors qu'ils vivent des experiences de frustration, de 
confusion et de desorientation, pourraient etre I'epine dorsale de 
votre camp en permettant aux enfants une experience enrichissante 
de plein air. 

Plusieurs parmi ceux-ci sont les memes individus qui permettront 
de vivre des emotions et d'un esprit si necessaire pour permettre a 
nos camps de prosperer. Ce ne sont pas les activites qui nous per¬ 
mettront de prosperer . . . ni les commodites . . . ce sont les gens. Si 
nous ne savons pas amenerJes jeunes gens et les jeunes filles qui 
communiquent de tels sentiments de chaleur et de loyaute dans les 
camps — alors il sera trop tard. 


3 





^9 ; 




hecwd? do a 

Good fellowshio and warmth were verv * 


f O 




4 


% 


Good fellowship and warmth were very 
apparent at the recent Geneva Park Conference. 

John Latimer and his committee are to be strongly 
commended for the programme and organization on the week¬ 
end. Certain aspects of the Conference appear within the pages of 
this edition but, before passing on to other news items, we would like to 
share a few of our impressions with our readers, especially with those who were 
not able to participate in the National Workshop. We can’t by-pass the spontaneity 
and enthusiasm of the members from QCA and SCA. Two tips of the hat to both groups and 
why? . . . because . . . Saskatchewan, if your attractively coloured and pictorial folders (which we 
found at our place at every meal - well! almost!) with the scenery, history, review of the canoe tripping 
water routes as plied by the Voyageurs are an indication of what awaits a visitor to your province, we can 
hardly wait to make our first trip there! The natty hats you sported gave you the spotlight many a time. Quebec, 




your posters in attractive, eye-catching 
colours brought to our attention votre 
Carnaval de Quebec. Then, Bob Lazanik 
smilingly presented us with the replica 
of a snowman, a dashing figure with a 
red toque and waistband. Our interest 
prompted us to enquire further and 
these are some highlights we learned 
about “Un Carnaval pour tout le 
monde”. The snowman, Bonhomme, is 
the symbol of good times, good fellow¬ 
ship and community living. During le 
Carnaval, a joyous period of two weeks, 
Bonhomme is everywhere ... in de¬ 
partment stores, at all activities and it 
is he who crowns La Reine du Carnaval. 
The life-size ice palace, in Centre 
Square in Quebec City, is constructed 
out of blocks of ice hauled from the 
river and brilliantly lit with coloured 
lights. How breathtaking it must be! In 
addition, there is a canoe race across 
the St. Lawrence River, sponsored by 
the newspaper “Quebec le soled”. Per¬ 
haps our warmest experience was the 
rousing singsong with Bob at the piano 
on the last evening.The response 
of the provincial contacts who have 
elected to join the Editorial Committee 
was greatly appreciated. We look for¬ 
ward to having them help us to produce 
a magazine which will be all-inclusive 
of the needs of the camping folk across 
Canada. The setting, the sunshine 
’n brisk air, the learning experienced 
and the camaraderie will long be re¬ 
membered. We have enjoyed brows¬ 
ing through the Newsletters received 
from SCA, ACA, OCA and N&LCA. 
Their editors deserve a pat on the back 
because the productions are excellent 
and we truly enjoyed the first hand 
news. Although the Toronto Camp¬ 
ing Show was for consumer benefit and 
had no connection with the OCA, one 
of its results will be to send 10 under- 
privdeged children from Toronto for 


two-week vacations to camps accredi¬ 
ted by the OCA.'^' The annual meet¬ 
ing of the SCA is to be held May 4-6th, 
an 4 in-camp’ conference at Camp Ray- 
ner on Lake Diefenbaker. The theme is 
“Camping: Where It’s At!”<-^> From 
the C.C.A. Executive Meeting, held at 
Jack Pearse’s Camp Tawingo in Hunts¬ 
ville on Feb. 4th, comes the following 
news items: the C.C.A. Board and 
Annual Meeting will be held April 11- 
13 in Parksville, near Nanaimo, B.C., in 
conjunction with a B.C.C.A. Confer¬ 
ence. A very valuable brief concerning 
the Opportunities for Youth Pro¬ 
gramme was presented by the MCA. 
This will be discussed on Feb. 20th 
when our President meets with the 
Secretary of State. Also, presentations 
have been made to Recreation Canada 
to hold another Standards Workshop 
next winter as well as an Outdoor Edu¬ 
cation Conference.Much thought 
and work has gone into the production 
of the Publications section in this 
magazine. The bulk of the books are in 
our camp library and we would recom¬ 
mend that you juggle your budget to 
make some purchases. Ron Perry, 
as the author of “The Canoe and You”, 
is well-known to many Canadians. Ron 
is the Headmaster of the Rosseau Lake 
School for boys. The School was situ¬ 
ated at Lady Eaton’s old summer house 
“Kawandag”. We saw it in all its beauty 
last fall and so were very grieved to 
hear that it was completely demolished 
by fire some time ago. But, we under¬ 
stand the School re-opened a week 
later, thanks to the assistance of the 
village of Rosseau and people like 
Shirley and Ted Yard. On the site now 
are seven 50’ trailers which serve as a 
dining unit, cooking facilities, living 
quarters and school rooms. Camp¬ 
ing is adventure!! With temperature 
changes from 40° above to 40° below 


(all within one week, at the same site!), 
it becomes more than an adventure. 
Eileen Mayotte had that experience in 
late February as she participated in a 
Winter Wilderness Camp at Candle 
Lake, Sask. This twice-yearly, one- 
week, full credit course is part of the 
requirements of the Recreation Tech¬ 
nology Class at the Sask. Institute of 
Applied Arts and Sciences in Saskatoon. 
Forty-seven students and thirteen staff 
used this week to learn basic camping 
skills such as cutting wood with a 
chain saw to keep their shack-tents 
warm, to overnight camping with all 
associated skills being put into practi¬ 
cal use, i.e. cross-country skiing, snow- 
shoeing, orienteering, back-packing 
with proper equipment and clothing, 
animal tracking and snow ecology. Six 
snowmobiles were on the site to be 
used as emergency equipment and all 
students were introduced to good 
practice procedures and handling. They 
all tried their hand at ice-fishing but 
with their reported luck, it’s no wonder 
they wound up th, week with a 
Cabaret, food provided. This was the 
third time Eileen had served as a 
resource person for this camp.In 
conjunction with the C.C.A. Workshop, 
two National organizations Y.W.C.A. 
and Y.M.C.A. had separate meetings in 
Toronto on Feb. 4th; a time to meet 
and discuss their own particular plans, 
problems and needs. *-^The dates and 
places have been selected for the 
Canoeing Schools . . . 

Western School-Lake of the Woods— 
June 2- 11 

Ottawa School—French—June 1 - 10 

Ottawa School-English-June 14-23 

Eastern School-Yarmouth, N.S.— 
June 9-18. 


Helen Stewart 


4 


Our Friends-The Indians 


by Jack Eastaugh 

Assistant to the Director, Taylor Statten Camps 



2$ 


i\A* 


The old time minstrel show disappeared some decades 
ago and many have said “Good riddance”! These shows 
were produced all over North America and even spilled into 
Europe. They were characterized by sugar sweet plantation 
songs and corny jokes. The leader or master of 
ceremonies was always the white-suited, white¬ 
skinned “Mr. Interlocutor” and he contrasted 
sharply and purposely with the rag-patched, 
pathetic appearance of the 
black fuzzy wigged chorus 
and ludicrous end men, whose 
main function seemed to be to 
emphasize the superior wisdom and 
culture of the white-man. Whites came out 
of the comparison rich, clean, handsome, wise 
and condescending — blacks emerged as poor, 
unkempt, superstitious, ignorant and subser¬ 
vient. 

Have we a parallel in the way we conduct 
Indian Lore in the summer camp? 1 think not 
and I hope you will have a clear conscience 
when you recall the activities and ceremonies 
you have conducted at your camp under the 
general guise of Indian Lore. 

Indian Lore — crafts - games — stories - 
council ring - should enhance, rather than 
demean, the Indian and his culture. Indians 
from Golden Lake, Couchiching, Georgian 
Bay, Brantford, Moosenee and other reserves 
have worked in various camps throughout 
Ontario. The Y.M.C.A. camps in Eastern and 
Western Canada for years have welcomed the 
participation of, and appreciated the contri¬ 
bution of local Indians in their programs. 

If the town concert hall and minstrel 
shows were responsible for demeaning the 
black man, we have movies and T.V. to blame 
for a basic misunderstanding of the North 
American Indian. 

History has been deliberately distorted so 
that the Indian is portrayed as a cunning, 
scheming, unreliable, blood-thirsty savage. 

There is documented evidence to prove that 
the whites who encountered the Indians in 
the great move west were the real 
scoundrels — that they cheated, corrup 
ted and treated the red man as an 
inferior being. 

When we add to such distortion the picture of Reserve 
Indians living in squalor and apparent listlessness, is there 
any wonder that our young people find it difficult to relate 
to Indian Lore with other than a shrug and a snicker? The 
Indian is a much maligned citizen and we may have done 
him irreparable harm, with our need to create a foil for the 
fake movie cowboy. 




Many camps are finding that debates and discussions, 
evolving around the general topic of the “Indian in to-day’s 
Society”, are a natural and valuable offshoot of the Indian 
Lore program in camp. The camp director who will encour¬ 
age such dialogue has added another dimension to an 
already fascinating activity. In addition, he has dealt 
honestly with a troublesome issue and opened a way 
for a better and enlightened understanding of one of 
, the world's most fascinating cultures. 

The Indian Council Ring Cere¬ 
mony, devised by Ernest Thompson 
Seton in the years following the first great 
war and refined by Taylor Statten who 
taught the ceremonies to camp leaders in the 
20’s, needs no apology and is still viable today. There 
is nothing in the Fire Lighting, Peace Pipe Ceremony, 
Indian Games, Dances or Departure of Hiawatha that 
could in any way be construed as demeaning the 
Indians of North America. 

Indian leaders to-day tell us that if we would 
understand their culture we must first look to their 
religion. Indian life and religion are so closely related 
that one cannot be understood without the other. 
Could it be that we have hit upon the very heart of the 
Indian heritage without realizing it? 

The hushed and solemn cavalcade to the Council 
Ring is reminiscent of the assembling of holy recruits. 
The lighting of the fire and the Peace Pipe Ceremony 
are certainly prayers acknowledging the presence of 
forces unknown and unseen. The reliance on wisdom 
from Wakonda, the one great knowing spirit of the 
universe has its counterpart in white society religion. 

It wouldn’t be fair to suggest that we have advo¬ 
cated primitive worship, but can we honestly claim 
that the mystery and beauty of the Indian Council 
Ring has not been due to this powerful acknowledge¬ 
ment of the spirits of mother earth, the wind and the 
rain, the birds and the beasts? Certainly in later years 
campers have acknowledged remembering a spine- 
tingling sensation at the close of the council ring when 
the entire group rose to sing “Wakonda dhe dhu” 
“Father a needy one stands before thee; I who sing am 
he.” Many more recall the enchanted moments when 
the hushed council sat gazing into the dying embers 
of the fire while everyone strained their ears to 
catch the distant refrain of Hiawatha’s Departure 
as the old chief strode off into the wilds to be 
heard from no more. 

So why not admit that much of the appeal of the Indian 
Council Ring Ceremony is dependent upon the observance 
of primitive ceremonies and a reliance upon the mystery of 
the wild? Candor is also required in levelling with the purist 
who can quite legitimately claim that Indian Lore in the 
summer camp is guilty of ignoring cultural facts. We have 
not limited ourselves to archaeological truths. 


5 














We have stolen the 
tepee from the people 
of the plains, the grotesque 
and marvellously hideous 
masks of the Iroquois, the 
birch bark crafts of the 
Hurons and the rich and 
colourful designs of the West 
Coast Indians. Actually there is 
nothing wrong with this practice as 
long as we recognize the source 
of our material and make the 
facts known to our campers. 
Failure to do so enhances the 
position of critics who would 
oppose the use of Indian Lore 
in our summer camps. 

Our present concern for 
conservation and interest in 
pollution control offers yet 
another approach to an 
Indian program. 

There is historical evidence 
that our native people killed 
only for food and warmth- 
that it was not until we 
opened markets for furs and 
meat that large scale killings 
occurred and game and fur bearing animals were made 
scarce. 

The Indian lived in fear of forest fires and consequently 
avoided the careless habits of city dwellers who take to the 
woods. He made use of the materials of his environment and 
in doing so developed a respect for his surroundings. 

In this short article it is not practical to describe the 
Indian Council Ring Ceremony that forms the basis of a 
successful Indian program. A complete and detailed de¬ 
scription of the rituals, ceremonies, games and organization 
is available by contacting the author at 51 Parkview Place, 
Brampton, Ontario or the Taylor Statten Camps. 

There is one aspect of the Council Ring, however, that 
requires serious consideration. Those camps where success¬ 
ful Council Rings are held find that it must be a total, all¬ 
camp program. Whereas many activities - theatre, chapel, 
musicales, movies, etc. can be carried on with more or less 
voluntary attendance, the Indian Council Ring does require 
the attendance of all campers and counselling staff. The 
reason is simple enough. Distractions of any kind are 
“killers”. Anyone who wants to can quickly draw a collec¬ 
tion of scoffers who then conspire to interrupt or interfere 
with the make believe atmosphere that is so essential in this 
kind of program. At Ahmek we do divide the camp so that 
the eleven and under boys and girls attend at one time and 
the twelve and up age group participate in another. At first 
we suffered the annoyance of some interference but such 
has not been the case for years now. 

If the camp director, senior per¬ 
sonnel, section directors, counsellors 
will take the trouble to learn the rituals 
and ceremonies and then dress appro¬ 
priately for the occasion, there is every 
likelihood that the Indian Council Ring 
Ceremony will succeed at your camp. ♦ 




If you enjoy working with 
your hands (so many people 
do), then you will appreciate 
the contents of our new 1973 

CRAFT 

CATALOGUE 

and 

IDEA BOOK 


Its 132 pages are full of Craft 
ideas, basic instructions and 
materials you can use during 
your creative leisure hours. 
Many craftworkers consider it 
a reference book on contempor¬ 
ary Arts 'n Crafts. So t if you 
enjoy working with your hands 
and would like a compliment¬ 
ary copy, simply send us your 
name and address. 



284-286 KING ST. WEST, 
TORONTO 2B. CANADA 





6 


























































































, 

L N/vecinesdai 


Jul 


M Nati 


to net 


il Campinq 

\w 3 


y I8 1 
Dajj 


STAFFORD FOODS LTD. 


Canned Fruits 


Powders 


Pie Fillings 
Toppings 


Condiments 


Tomato Products 


Spices 


Branch Offices Toronto 
and Warehouses Hamilton 


Head Office Toronto 
366-8021 



Soup Bases 


Hot Chocolate 


Shortening 


Potatoes 


Flavours 


Edmonton 

Vancouver 















THE CHALLENGE 



Sitting at the feet of the Master-1 
have on my Camp Staff today the man 
who was my Camp Director when I 
was an eight year old. He has had a 
profound influence on my Staff. Very 
quietly he shares a lifetime of view¬ 
point and experience. They speak to 
him in tones of wonder and almost 
awe. He is 76 years old and, as he 
works, offers thought and value from 
the past that is valid today and will be 
in the future. 

As a youngster in Camp, I used to 
listen to C.T. Sharpe talk of sitting at 
the benches and eating off the tables 
when the day was good - and sitting 
under the tables and eating off the 
benches when the days were rainy. In 
all the stories that C.T. used to tell, the 
light shone through in his love 
for people. 

There have been fantastic changes 
over the past decade. I don’t have to 
list them because you are all aware of 
the great revolutions that are current 
in our times. “Greening of America”, 
“Future Shock” and “Limits of 
Growth” have all outlined the threat! 

We have all experienced grief and 
disappointment as we have seen youth 
sacrificed to this upheaval and change. 
We have all decried the fact that our 
youth no longer accept and follow the 
values of their parents. We have all been 
guilty of teaching subtly and insidiously 
that the values we claim are not really 
the values we practice. What have we 
taught our children as we speed down 


in Camping with Youth 


by Ron Johnstone 

President, Ontario Camping Association 
and 

Director, Camp White Bear 


the highway in excess of the posted 
speed limits? or made a rolling stop at 
a stop sign? Then we are surprised when 
our children cheat in school! What do 
we, as adults, teach in our “little 
leagues” when winning becomes all 
important? Why, they will have to com¬ 
pete in this cruel world eventually! 
Nobody likes to lose! Dad comes home 
tense, bitchy and on edge — but oh! 
glory be! he has a nice relaxing drink 
and lo and behold - a new Dad. But, 
“hey kids . . . don’t drink. It’s bad 
for you! 

If some of these demonstrated atti¬ 
tudes in adult society don’t turn off 
our youth, then TV advertising and our 
consumer society does. 

I don’t believe that the youth of 
today are all that different from yester¬ 
day. I don’t believe that there is a new 
morality. I do, however, believe that 
today’s youth can no longer stomach 
the double standard that society seems 
bent on expressing. Our youth wish to 
express love, concern, caring, fairness, 
faith in a true unembarrassed way. They 
have trouble with adults who cannot 
express these ‘old fashioned’ values in 
an honest, straightforward way. So, if 
there is a new morality, it r the 
honest expression of values thm nave 
been with us for years. 

In a discussion with Jack Pearse, 
not so long ago, we were talking about 
camp as an ideal society! I believe it tu 
be just that! One problem expressed 
was how do you take your leadership 
from the rat race of today and inspire 
if to be ideal. Jack seemed to feel that 
the gap in leadership was broadening - 
I see it as being more and more ideal. 

It is my contention that, if we con¬ 
tinue to say to our staff ‘this is the 


ideal counsellor’ and expect the ‘clean 
cut youth’ to operate in a framework 
that is completely foreign to him, then 
we will have nothing but failure and 
an inability to reach the ideal. We must 
work through our aims, our objectives 
and our philosophy of what we want 
our camps to be . . . we, then, must 
take the risk with our staff ... we 
must guide, encourage and lead to¬ 
ward our objective, allowing our staff 
to bring the campers along in light of 
the personality of each staff person. 
Obviously, the selection of our staff 
becomes our most vital concern. Much 
time and effort and money must be 
given to the development of our staff. 

We must take the emphasis off the 
learning of camping skills and place it 
squarely on what is happening to the 
camper while he is learning those skills. 
In the rush and bustle of cooks, motors 
and details, we oftimes turn this con¬ 
cern over to section directors or others 
who have neither the insight nor the 
understanding to make sure of this 
emphasis. This I see as the camp direc¬ 
tor’s main area of responsibility as it is 
the basis of both physical and mental 
safety in our camps. I often think of 
Dr. John Rich’s comments at one of 
our O.C.A. Conferences when he said, 
“you can teach a camper how to pad¬ 
dle a canoe, but you cannot teach him 
how to spend time in a canoe — only 
the calm, peace, beauty and serenity 
of the country can do that”. 

All of us have had the soul inspiring 
experience of lying beside a fire, smell¬ 
ing the wood ''moke, watching the 
light and shadow*? reflect on the trees 
above and tlr- ving the majesty of 
the heavens . . . expressed by the 
milky way. 


8 



I have sat and watched ... the 
beaver going about her busy life, a 
moose and her calf calmly feeding, the 
grouse nesting timidly as the violence 
of a marten stalked her nest. In all 
these experiences, it was the sharing 
of the experience with someone else 
that made them real. Sharing them 
without reservation . . . without apo¬ 
logy for the tear that such emotion 
brings to the eye. 

I have had the honour of viewing 
our wilderness with the Chief of the 
Ojibway Bear Island Band. I have heard 
him describe his “mother earth” with 
such deep emotion that my only re¬ 
sponse could be silence. This is one of 
the value heritages that we must de¬ 
velop and share with the youth 
of today. 

Yes, program is a means to an end! 
As camp directors, that end is our main 
responsibility. 

We know, from our group work 
experience, how important small 
groups and a sense of belonging is to 
developing youth. Yet we have sat 
back, with our knowledge, and said 
little or nothing as our schools get 
bigger and bigger and we see, hear and 
experience our youth getting “turned 
off’ by formal education. 

At Dorset, in October, 600 leaders 
in outdoor education gathered to dis¬ 
cuss, plan and solidify the outdoor 
experience for children. One of the 
startling facts that came to light was 
that the experience should be in small 
groups, in depth with trained leader¬ 
ship. Camp directors of fifty years ago 
could have told us this! 

If camping is going to survive, it 
must lead. We must accept this role and 
initiate leadership in our own com¬ 
munities, our provinces and in Canada. 

On a recent show, Pierre Burton 
was interviewing the 80 year old who 
developed the aerial and skip bombs of 
the second world war. The old gentle¬ 
man talked about the dynamics of 
stress and tension in metals. He is 
currently developing the super struc¬ 
ture of a plane that will fly five times 
faster than the speed of sound. The 
world will get smaller and smaller as a 
result! What really struck home to me 
was this 80 year old exerting leadership 
in this fast, dynamic world. He hasn’t 
forgotten the excitement of discovery. 

I remember, in ^conferences, 
that one of the majoi concerns was that 
our camps become real and reflect the 


community so that the experiences of 
our campers could prepare them for 
life. I believe that our camp communi¬ 
ties are not only real but also ideal - 
where our campers can experience 
goodness, kindness, concern for others, 
fair play and belonging and thus reflect 
all these values in their home com¬ 


munities. 

What then is the role of the camp 
director? What is our trust as leaders in 
this great movement, called camping? 
As a movement, it is still as vital and 
as poignant as ever. We still experience 
the deep abiding emotion that is ours 
in the out-of-doors. 

Does organization stiffle? Are we 
giving lip service to creativity? Are we 
too conscious of safety and thus 
inhibiting adventure in the out-of- 
doors? Are these trappings of civiliza¬ 
tion the things that are trying to slow 
down our dynamic movement? 

If we are to surge ahead we must 
risk our future by giving leadership and 
speaking out on what we know is the 
direction of developing youth. We must 
risk our future by giving youngsters 
the challenge for living an ideal. The 
risk of fully exposing their own lives 
to others. 

All of us have been doing these 
things for years. What is it in camping 
that has made you invest your lives? 

That to me is the challenge! Redis¬ 
covering the excitement, the verve, the 
involvement! As we do; so will our 



79P 

To offset the problem of slippery 
docks, you maybe have painted the 
wood and immediately sprinkled a coat 
of finely-sifted sand directly over the 
fresh paint and, for longer life, applied 
a second coat of paint after the first 
one had dried; or perhaps, you have 
used canvas or coco matting. Our 
suggestion is that you forget about 
them and apply millfelt, also known as 
dryer felt or^anvas. It is the cast-off 
felt from the rollers and can be pur¬ 
chased from any Pulp and Paper Co. 
The millfelt that we purchased in ’71, 
costing 34 a sq. ft., was put down and 
it will be years before it has to be re- 
I placed because it stands up in all kinds 
; of weather, including snow! Also, it is 
non-skid, neither stretches nor shrinks, 
and can easily be cut with a pair of 
! shears or sharp scissors. The outside 
edge is tailored trimmed. By applying 
eyelets, it can be laced on floating 
docks. Hope we’ve convinced you be¬ 
cause it is, without any doubt, the best 
investment we ever made for camp. 


If you are starting a new camp or have 
a small camp, you might be interested 
in this idea because it is a surefire 
remedy for preventing homesickness, a 
dreadful camp malady ... a Mother 
and Daughter (or Father and Son) 
Week-end; the second week-end of 
June at camp brings staff and new 
campers with their mothers together 
for a brief orientation sojourn in the 
camp setting, with a menu geared to 
the one that will be used in the sum¬ 
mer. Mothers leave very satisfied, wish¬ 
ing they could be campers again and 
the campers? . . they can hardly wait 
for camp to begin! And you, the 
director, have camp in readiness and, 
in addition, you experience satisfaction 
in the fact that some of the kinks have 
maybe been ironed out before your 
summer session begins. If you have a 
question about how to get this week¬ 
end “off the ground”, ask the Editor. 

If you have a worthwhile tip, please 
share your wealth and pass it on to the 
Editor. 

Helen Stewart 



9 






CAMPING PUBLICATIONS 

— publications service, CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 


LEADERSHIP TRAINING 

THE CAMP COUNSELLORS BOOK. Northway & Lowes. 

— a popular aid to counsellors by two well-known Canadian 
camp directors. 

146 p. $3.50 


SO YOU WANT TO BE A CAMP COUNSELLOR 
Elmer F. Ott. 

— an introduction to the job expressly written for the 
camp counsellor. 

112 p. $1.50 


SOL VING CAMP BEHA VIOR PROBLEMS. Doherty. 

— helping the counsellor understand the causes of behavior 
problems. 

62 p. $1.25 


CAMP COUNSELLOR’S MANUAL. Ledlieand Holbein. 

— what the counsellor must know and what he must be if 
he is to be an asset to his camp. 

128 p. $1.75 


CAMP MANAGEMENT 

A CAMP DIRECTOR TRAINS HIS OWN STAFF. Hammett 
— suggestions for in-camp and pre-camp training. 

A.C.A. $ .75 


CAMP JOB DESCRIPTIONS 
— job descriptions for basic positions. 

A.C.A. $ .50 


CAMPCRAFT 

A.C.A. CAMPCRAFT INSTRUCTORS MANUA L 
— a manual which provides the Instructor with a framework 
for a successful campcraft program for campers of ALL 
ages and abilities. 

92 p. $1.50 


WOODCRAFT. "Nessmuk” 

— the original woodcraft book. 

Sears 101 p. $1.25 


CHURCH CAMPING 

HOW TO BE A CAMP COUNSELLOR 
- a manual for successful Christian camping. Spells out the 
opportunities, duties, and qualifications of a Christian 
camp counsellor. 

$ .75 


CAMPING TOGETHER AS CHRISTIANS 
- an excellent resource for Protestant church camps (and 
others seeking aid in the spiritual development of their 
program). 

148 p. $1.50 


CHURCH CAMPING 

— an administrative manual dealing with a church sponsored 
experience in group living. Offers guidance to planning 
committees, sponsors and the director. 

140 p. $3.25 


NATURE LORE 

ACCLIMATIZATION 

— the popular book about a sensory and conceptual 
approach to ecological involvement. One of the biggest 
sellers in the American Camping Association this 
past year. 

138 p. $3.25 


CANOEING 

BASIC RIVER CANOEING. McNair. 

— the complete manual for white water canoeing. 

A.C.A. 104 p. $1.50 


MALO’S COMPLETE GUIDE TO CANOEING AND 
CANOE CAMPING 

— an indispensible reference for the beginner and seasoned 
outdoorsman, packed with pictures, diagrams, and 
technical know-how. 

$1.95 


10 


COOKING 


SAILING 


COOKER Y FOR KIDS, KAMP TV KICKS. Stewart. 

— a fine book for campers to use when planning meals for 
out-trips. Excellent in-camp recipes; 2 one-week menus 
for camp included. 

81 p. $3.50 


THE OLD-FASHIONED DUTCH OVEN COOKBOOK. 

Holm. 

— authentic sourdough baking. Full of pioneer recipes and 
methods. 

106 p. $3.95 

HEALTH AND SAFETY 

THE CAMP PHYSICIANS MANUAL.- Thomas. 

— an on-the-spot reference to the common medical and 
surgical problems encountered at summer camps. 

192 p. $8.50 

RIDING 

TEACHING RIDING AT SUMMER CAMP. Price. 

— a comprehensive guide to the managing of stables and 
teaching children the basics of good horsemanship. 
Details on how to conduct programs for the beginner, 
intermediate and advanced riders plus a great variety of 
special events programs. 

$1.95 

* LIBRARY SERVICE 


THE SMALL BOAT SAILOR’S BIBLE. Smith. 

- a complete guide to buying, maintaining, and sailing 
small sailboats, with over 100 illustrations. 

147 p. $1.95 

SWIMMING 

LEARN TO SWIM. Waterman. 

- a clear to-the-point manual outlines a series of lessons 
and exercises specially designed to increase confidence 
and skill in the water. 

160 p. $1.95 

CANADA'S CENTENARY JOURNEY 

- the Centennial project of C.C.A. - a collectors’ item - 
cross-Canada by canoe. 

145 p. $2.00 

1972 ONTARIO CONFERENCE DIGEST 

CAMP IS GROWING UP—a digest packed with ideas which 
will be of value to all counsellors and senior staff. 

104 p. $4.50 

ONCE THERE WAS A CAMPER 

Mary Edgar’s popular book of poems which are of interest 

and inspiring to all campers. 

48 p. $1.75 


ARE YOU LOOKING FOR BOOKS ON PARTICULAR TOPICS? - WRITE US - 
WE SHALL TRY TO FIND THEM - THEN LET YOU KNOW - THEN SEND YOU THE ONES YOU WANT 


CCA MEMBER DISCOUNT: 
10% off list 

* We pay postage on pre-paid orders. 



C.C.A. member: .□ 
section: _ 

Cheque enclosed □ 
Send Invoice □ 

Name:_ 

Address: _ 











FOODS 


KAMP PACK 
IN CANADA! 




The finest Meals 
for 

“Trail Campers ” 

Kamp Pack Cook-Out Foods 
packed in our own Govern¬ 
ment inspected plant. 

Choose from 36 light, tasty 
and easy-to-fix KAMP PACK 
items. Flavor sealed foil 
packages satisfies 4 or 8 
outdoor appetites. 

Write for information to 


FOR COOK OUTS 
CAMPING OUT 
HUNTING FISHING TRIPS 
Nothinf to Add but Water 
No Refrigeration Necessary 


SELECT FOOD PRODUCTS LTD. 


KAMP PACK DIVISION 


120 SUNRISE AVENUE 


TORONTO 16, ONT. 


Telephone: 759-9316 


YOUR CAMPERS 
WILL 
ENJOY 

^ L / . . . . 

i y o v »f /"uiicirvcn* 


"Taste the Difference 
Quality Makes" 


J.M. SCHNEIDER LTD., KITCHENER, ONT. 
(519) 745-7321 


TENT . . . Lightweight Cotton Roof & Walls 
FLY ... . Light, rugged Poly Weave 
WINTER LINER . . . Breathable Cotton 
POLES . . . Optional Extra 


who created the DAVOS ROBE 

FORESTER MK 3 ROBE 
100 PACKSACK 
200 PACKSACK 


For complete information, write to: 


woods' 

BAG & CANVAS CO. LTD. 

401 Logan Ave. 140 Alexander Ave. 

Toronto 1, Ont. Winnipeg, Man. 


comes the 

"MARSAN" 


From WOODS 








Medical Supplies for the Camp Infirmary 


The following list of supplies is 
suggested for a residential summer 
camp for children with an enrolment 
of about fifty to one hundred campers. 
Specific quality, brand name or supplier 
have not been mentioned since many 
of them are local, and doctors attend¬ 
ing the camp may have individual 
preferences. Different quantities may 
be ordered more economically, but 
those listed would at least be satis¬ 
factory for the original equipping of 
an infirmary. 

First aid supplies for out-trips are 
not included in this list of medical 
supplies. 

Enamelware: 

1 Wash basin, 12 to 15 inches in 
diameter (one for each infirm¬ 
ary bed) 

1 Solution bowl 
1 Kidney basin (curved) 

1 Instrument container with lid 
1 Instrument tray 
1 Bed Pan - adult size 
1 Bed Pan - child size 

Glassware: 

6 Medicine Glasses — graduated 
6 Thermometers — stubby 
6 Medicine droppers - straight 
6 Bottles (empty) with caps 
25 Disposable Syringes - hypoder¬ 
mic 2 c.c. 

1 Glass jug - graduated - 16 oz. 
Rubber Goods: 

2 Hot Water Bottles — stopperless 
1 Ice Cap 

1 Ear Syringe (large) 

Miscellaneous: 

1 Balance Scales (weight) 

1 Pair Crutches - adjustable 
1 Waste Receptacle 
1 Hand Brush 
12 Safety Pins 
1 Tourniquet 
1 Folding Stretcher 
1 Electric Sterilizer 
1 Goose-neck Lamp 
1 Small Refrigerator 
1 Metal Cabinet — locked 

1 Box Drinking Straws 

2 Boxes Tongue Blades (child size) 

1 Box Wooden Applicators - 6” 

1 Tin Talcum Powder 


by J. Harry Ebbs, M.D., F.R.C.P. 

Instruments: 

1 Pair Scissors - 5-1 /2” (chrome)- 
one sharp and one blunt point 
1 Pair Scissors - bandage - 5-1/2” 
1 Forceps - splinter - 4-1/2” 

1 Pair Forceps - dressing - 5” 

25 Disposable Needles — hypo¬ 
dermic - #25 

2 Haemostat Forceps 

Bandages: 

12 Gauze bandage - 1 ” x 5 yds. 

12 Gauze bandage — 2” x 5 yds. 

12 Gauze bandage — 3” x 5 yds. 

6 Crepe bandage — 3” x 5 yds. 

6 Flannel bandage — 3” x 5 yds. 

3 Triangular bandage - cotton 

Dressings: 

1 Package — 30 - Gauze Pads 
(sterile) 3” x 3” 

1 Package - 36 - Gauze and cotton 
pads (sterile) 6” x 6” 

1 Package - Gauze - plain - 5 yds. 

1 Box - 100 - Adhesive Dressings 
(waterproof) - 3/4” x 3” 

1 Roll Adhesive Tape — 12” x 
10 yds. (assorted width cuts) 

1 Wall Rack for above 
1 Roll Absorbent Cotton — 1 lb. 

Antiseptics: 

16 Ounces Rubbing Alcohol 
16 Ounces Antiseptic Solution, e.g. 
Zephirin Chloride (aqueous or 
tincture), Metaphen (tincture) 
etc. 

8 Ounces Hydrogen Peroxide 3% 

1 Tin B.F.I. Powder 

16 Ounces Liquid Paraffin 

Tablets: 

500 ASA - 5 grains 
100 ASA and Codeine (grains 1/4) 
200 Tablets Milk of Magnesia 
100 Tablets Phenobarbital grains 1/2 
100 Tablets Pyribenzamine 50 mgms 
100 Tablets Penicillin 250,000 units 
100 Tablets Triple Sulpha 
100 Capsules Achromycin 
16 Ounces Kaopectate or Kaosorb 

2 Ounces Earache Drops 

2 Ounces Toothache Drops 

4 Ounces Nose Drops . 

(1% Ephedrine) 



Ointments: 

1 Lb. Jar Petrolatum Alba 

16 Ounces Calamine Cream 

1 Ounce tube Eye Ointment 
Neosporin 

1 Tube Pyribenzamine Cream 

1 Tube Polysporin Ointment 

1 Tube Steroid Ointment as pre¬ 
scribed by physician 

It is expected that the above would 
be modified if a hospital or doctor’s 
office was in near proximity. 

It would be expected that the doc¬ 
tor would write prescriptions for any 
special drugs, equipment or special 
dressings, etc. 

The attending doctor would provide 
or order his own instruments such as 
scalpel, special forceps, scissors, sutur¬ 
ing material, ear curettes, special 
syringes, rubber gloves, oral thermo¬ 
meter and such special injectibles as 
adrenalin, steroids, local anaesthetic, 
narcotic drugs, penicillin for injection, 
etc. He would probably also provide 
anaesthetic material, ampules of saline 
or glucose solution, and would order 
intravenous sets if indicated. Elastic 
Adhesive Bandages, Plaster Bandages, 
Limb Supports and Special Dressings 
would also be best provided by the 
physician. Emeigency injection, inhala¬ 
tion and oral medication for severe 
alleigy and reaction to bites should be 
provided if not in close proximity. 
Similarly in areas known to require 
possible first aid, a snake bite kit should 
be available. The doctor will order such 
things as tetanus toxoid and will have 
information for getting rabies informa¬ 
tion if necessary. The director in con¬ 
sultation with the doctor should have 
suitable and adequate illness and acci¬ 
dent record forms. 

The above is recommended for first 
aid by a physician or nurse assuming 
that this service would be provided for 
the camp population not for general 
public and that all other emergency or 
more serious conditions would be re¬ 
ferred to a hospital. + 


13 



CAMPERS SHOULD BE PERMITTED 

to "shop” in the tuck shop! 

by W. Bertram Danson 

Director Emeritus, Camp Winnebagoe 


In talking about camp with new or 
potential campers, as expected they ask 
many questions about your camp pro¬ 
gram. In my experience, one of the 
most frequent questions is “How often 
do we get tuck?” Certainly, this “acti¬ 
vity” seems to evoke questions. The 
only activity that was NOT included 
in our fee! Always an ‘extra’. 

Who amongst us doesn’t like a 
“treat”? And what is “tuck” but a 
treat! Although a camp should not be 
judged upon the merits of its tuck 
shop, nor should we place much im¬ 
portance upon this very necessary part 
of camp life, I feel it should be given 
more importance than it has been given 
in some of our camps. 

Let us not think of the tuck shop as 
a place where the children can buy just 
candy. There are many other items that 
should be carried but the tuck shop 
should not resemble a small edition of 
the village general store. We can go 
overboard and carry items in our tuck 
shops that children really don’t need. 
It should be a part of our responsibility 
as camp directors to see that the child 
only purchases essentials and also that 
he is limited in his edible treats. Parents 
will greatly appreciate our concern on 
their behalf in seeing that their camp¬ 
er’s tuck purchases are carefully 
watched. 

Although it is necessary to have a 
certain quantity of candy treats, we 
have endeavoured to see that our tuck 
shop carried as many of the non-candy 
type of treats as possible. Recognizing 
that anything containing sugar is not 
good for the teeth of a growing child, 
we have always tried to carry such 
non-sugar items as potato chips, pop 
corn and the like. We have always made 
it a policy not to sell gum. Not only is 
it another item containing sugar, but 
gum always ends up on the underside 
of the tables, benches, bed rails or on 
the floors of the camp buildings. 

Most camps, I am sure, will carry 
the usual line of necessary sundries 
such as paper-handkerchiefs, tooth¬ 
paste, soap, stationery, stamps and so 
on. Items such as combs, toothbrushes, 


shampoo, deodorant, sunglasses, bath¬ 
ing caps can generally be obtained 
from home, or, if lost while at camp, 
they can be secured from the nearby 
town when one of the staff is there. 
To carry these casually required items 
in the camp tuck shop usually means 
purchasing a fair quantity, which may 
have to be carried over from year to 
year. 

What about camp T-shirts? Many 
camps do carry them in the tuck shop. 
Many used to. Many never did. It has 
been our experience that it NEVER 
pays! For the stock that has to be 
carried over from year to year, you are 
indeed fortunate to get your money 
out. The margin of profit is minimal; 
frequently the mice get into them and 
make nests. We always felt our job was 
to run a good Camp. We had no right 
trying to be in the clothing business 
too. 

We found a camp outfitter in town 
that was pleased to carry our camp 
T-shirts. We let his name be known to 
our campers’ families. They could, if 
they wished, secure T-shirts and sweat¬ 
shirts from him. He carried the inven¬ 
tory and made the profit (if any) and 
he took the losses. The latter he was 
happy to do because parents always 
purchased other camp necessities at his 
store. This was the name of his game. 

What about paddles? Some camps 
provide paddles for canoeing. Others 
ask that the campers bring their own. 
It is not our intention to go into the 
pros and cons of this subject, but 
merely to mention that if you do feel 
there is merit in asking the camper to 
have his own paddle, on which he can 
paint the OCA canoeing awards he has 
secured and also always ensure himself 
of a half decent paddle for canoeing, 
camps can supply this in the tuck shop 
at a price that is very competitive and 
also make sure that the paddle supplied 
the camper is of the correct size and 
weight for him. Naturally, with an item 
of this expense, a letter of permission 
from the parent is always advisable. 

We have found that there are two 
methods of tuck shop supplying in 


general use. One is where the campers 
submit a list of their requirements, 
generally by cabin group. These orders 
are filled by one of the administrative 
staff, put in bags or boxes and sent 
back with the list to the cabin. Some¬ 
times the list is retained by the camp 
office for charging records. 

Other camps have a regular tuck 
shop where the children can attend and 
“shop”; where they can see what is 
available in the line of treats and 
“choose”. We have always used this 
latter, as it has been an anticipated and 
enjoyable time for the children. It is 
better to work this on a schedule 
according to age-groups and the candy 
treats can be limited. Of course, in the 
case of necessities the counsellors, who 
are permitted to attend daily, can 
secure items of this nature for their 
campers. 

This type of tuck shopping has 
line-ups and the accompanying bedlam. 
But we have always insisted that the 
campers attend by cabin group and 
one of the counsellors of that group be 
in attendance to see that a decorous 
attitude prevails. 

What about “systems”? What con¬ 
trols can a director have on the inven¬ 
tory in the tuck shop? These vary as 
much as do the different camps. How¬ 
ever, systems can be a topic on its own. 

I know that we always found it 
much more satisfactory to request a 
“deposit” for tuck when billing for the 
camp fees in the spring. This could be 
either $5, $10 or $15, depending upon 
how long the child is going to be at 
camp. We use a system of “tuck cards”. 
This is a card, inexpensively printed, 
measuring about 3” x 5-3/4”. Each 
card is worth $5. There is space on the 
card for the camper’s name, cabin 
number and each is serial numbered. 
Around the outside of the card are 
little boxes, squared off in denomina¬ 
tions of either 5$, 10$ or 25$ - the 
whole totalling $5. These were kept 
in the tuck shop in cabin groups. As 
the children always attend in cabin 
groups, the girls in the tuck shop 
merely had to have the stack of tuck 


14 


cards for each group on hand when the 
children were expected and it was a 
simple matter to mark them. We used 
a simple and inexpensive ticket punch 
to punch out the amounts of the pur¬ 
chases. (Each camper had been charged 
with $5. at the beginning of the 
season.) If, when the card was used up 
and the child had sufficient to his tuck 
credit for a second card, then this was 
issued and charged to him. If, at the 
end of his stay at camp, there was 
money left over on the tuck card, then 
this amount was put in an envelope 
and given to him as he was getting on 
the bus to go home. 

By this method, the most you will 
have to charge to a child’s account for 
tuck shop will be either one or two 
entries during the month he will be at 
camp. True, we cannot account for 
how he spent his tuck money, but we 
can assure the parents that his spending 


is observed by both the tuck shop girls 
and his counsellor. If we have 1% of 
our families requesting an accounting 
of tuck shop expenditures, that is a lot. 
Therefore, we long ago deemed it 
unnecessary to keep track of what 


every penny of tuck shop expenditures 
was for. 

The pleasures and excitement of the 
campers shopping at the tuck shop 
have caused us to decide never to 
remove these pleasures from the chil¬ 
dren - and us! ♦ 



Watch those Pocket Rockets! 


Some camps include rocketry as part of their program. 
Such activities are now governed by the Minister of Air. 

The authority for this new regulation is Amendment 
No. 13 of the Air Regulations and Aeronautics Act of 
Canada which states in part, 

“No person shall fly model aircraft within five miles 
from the centre of any control zone or aerodrome 
traffic zone, as set out in the Designated Airspace 
Handbook published under the authority of the 
Minister, in a manner that creates or is likely to 
create a hazard to aircraft. 

No person shall launch a rocket of any type or kind 
from any place in Canada without the written 
authorization of the Minister except 

(a) a model rocket equipped with an approved model 
rocket engine using an approved model rocket 
propellent mixture; or 

(b) a rocket of a type used in a fireworks display. 


Notwithstanding paragraph (a) above, no person shall 

launch a model rocket 

(a) within 10 miles from the centre of any airport, 
control zone or aerodrome traffic zone described 
in the Designated Airspace Handbook; 

(b) in any manner that creates or is likely to create a 
hazard to aircraft; 

(c) in any manner that creates or is likely to create a 
hazard to persons or property on the ground; 

(d) into any cloud; and 

(e) unless a firing supervisor approved by the Royal 
Canadian Flying Clubs Association is present to 
supervise the launching.” 

N.B. It might be a good idea for camps who intend hiring 
“firing supervisors” [(e) above], to be quite specific, 
for the benefit of other staff members, as to the 
actual role of the firing supervisor. 

Paul Rushton 


A.O. WHITE SUPPLY(1963) LTD. 

Toronto 366-3536 


Suppliers of best Kitchen and Dining Room 
Equipment for Camps. 

Stoves • Dishes • Cutlery • Pots & Pans 
Used Equipment 


Visit our NEW, big showroom at: 318 Queen Street West (1 block east of Spadina) 

NO PARKING RESTRICTIONS 


15 






























































Langford 
Canoes | 


1 

| 

§ 


Canvas Covered Cedar Strip 



A Better Canoe | 
at a Better Priced 


A product 
of unexcelled 

quality and 
craftsmanship 


From 

MARGESSON & CO. LTD. 

Langford Canoe Sales Division 

17 ADELAIDE STREET EAST. 
TORONTO, ONTARIO 

(416) 366-2741 






AUSTRIAN RAVIOLI 
(KETTLE AND 2 FRY PANS) 

Vi lb. bacon 
2-3 onions 
2 green peppers 
2^2 lb. ground steak 
% lb. elbow macaroni 
2 cans peas or lima beans 
2 cans tomato soup 
Salt 

Boil macaroni in salted water over 
flame for about 20 minutes. Cut bacon 
into small pieces and fry over coals. 
Remove bacon from frying pan. 

Cut onions and peppers fine and fry in 
bacon fat, then add ground steak mixed 
with 1 tsp. salt. 

Fry ground meat thoroughly, keeping 
it well stirred. When macaroni is cook¬ 
ed, drain and add the tomato soup, 
peas or lima beans and reheat. 

Add bacon and material from frying 
pan and stir well in kettle. 

TEXAS TOMMIES 

Slit a wiener lengthwise and insert a 
piece of cheese. Wrap a slice of bacon 
around the wiener and fasten with 
toothpicks. It can be cooked in a frying 
pan but it is better to cook it on a green 
stick. Can be eaten in a hotdog roll or 
a slice of bread. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING 




This recipe can utilize almost any kind 
of cookies, stale cake, or breakfast 
foods such as corn flakes, even if soggy! 
1 can (1-2/3 cups) evaporated milk 
% cup instant cocoa mix 
Vi cup sugar 
% cup water 

10 (or so) coarsely broken graham 
crackers (or as above) 

Combine the first four ingredients and 
bring them to a boil, stirring constantly. 
Add the graham crackers and cook over 
a low heat for about Vi hour, stirring 
occasionally. Spoon the pudding into 
dishes. 




POCKET STEW 

2 lb. ground steak 
8 large potatoes 
8 large carrots 
3-4 large onions 
Va lb. butter 
10 ft. tin foil 

Salt and pepper 
(for each child) 

V* lb. meat 
1 large potato 
1 large carrot 
Vi large onion 
Butter 

Tinfoil — 1 foot 
Instructions for each child: 

Make a large meat patty (flat — %" 
thick, 4" x 3")- Slice potatoes and 
carrots (slices should not be more than 
thick). Dice or chop onion — rub 
butter on part of tinfoil which will be 
in contact with food. (Can put extra 
butter in also.) Place food in layers — 

1. Meat in very centre. 

2. Either potatoes or carrots on the 
outside. 

Note: Shiny side of tinfoil should be 
inside. Entire stew, when folded, should 
be approx. 6" x 4" x 272". 

Note: Should be no more than 2 layers 
of tinfoil around stew, and no less. 
Also, no holes in tinfoil. Cook in coals 
10 minutes on each side. 


APPLES IN FOIL 

Core large baking apples and peel skin 
from upper part. Place on squares of 
foil. Fill centres with orange marma¬ 
lade, top with chopped nuts and 
sprinkle with lemon juice to keep cut 
surface from discolouring. Wrap in foil, 
twisting at top to close. Cook on grill 
45 minutes or until soft. 


Editor's Note: The above recipes are among 
many in the cook book entitled "Cookery 
for Kids, Kamp 'n Kicks". 


16 














DO IT NOW! 

A Camp Director’s 
Check List 

by Eanswythe Flynn, 

Camp Brigadoon 



This is the last chance to do a double-take on all the Ins and Outs of good camp¬ 
ing... check the grounds, oversee repairs, painting and replacements to be satisfied 
that they have been completed. Go over the list of preparations we have made for 
you in the past three issues of Canadian Camping. If anything is still not as you 
like it in your own situation . . . then DO IT NOW! 


IN JUNE ... 

■ There should be little to list, actu¬ 
ally, at this time. You might check to 
see that you have this year’s Test 
Sheets for canoeing and swimming 
awards, enough to last the summer. If 
there are any other new forms you 
should be using, order the supply now. 

■ Your Staff Manual should be distri¬ 
buted to all your staff members by the 
first week of June at the latest. 

■ Continue to send drinking water 
and swimming water samples to pro¬ 
vincial Departments of Health at their 
required intervals. 

■ Check with Departments of Lands 
and Forests or Ministries of Natural 
Resources about canoe routes and 
hiking areas, and the cost, if any, of 
sending 'groups over Government- 
owned waters and property. 

■ Be sure that staff contracts have 
been received and all their necessary 
forms signed. The information letter 
concerning their arrival at camp and 
other pertinent information should be 
mailed to your Staff. 

■ Check on final arrangements for the 
staff pre-camp session and make cer¬ 
tain all is in readiness for the arrival 
of the staff. 

■ Set up the infirmary. Check sup¬ 
plies. Have they been delivered as 
ordered? Are campers’ Health Forms 
and their Doctors’ Certificates coming 
in? Have you enough file cards for 
your records and a suitable place to 
file them? 

■ Prepare for arrival of kitchen staff. 
Supervise their training. Be sure that 
they understand the provincial health 
regulations and the importance of 
absolute cleanliness in this area, not 
only for the Health Inspectors, but for 
everyday cooking, eating and cleaning. 

■ Check garbage disposal system, 
cleanliness of garbage pails and effi¬ 


ciency of garbage removal to the town 
dump, or other local area. 

■ Check grounds for loose nails and 
broken glass, boards or logs out of 
place on paths, around buildings or 
anywhere campers may walk or run, 
for any holes or open pits which could 
be a hazard. 

■ Prepare for arrival of campers. Have 
staff ready with lists of names and 
cabin groups, trained to meet parents 
and give a warm welcome to campers. 
FROM HERE ON ... MAY YOUR 
SUMMER BE A HAPPY, HEALTH¬ 
FUL ONE. 



ALL CAMPER'S CLOTHING AND 
BELONGINGS 

should be marked for easy identification 
and to avoid loss. 

CAMP LINEN AND EQUIPMENT, TOO, 
should be marked to avoid confusion 
and loss. 

NAMES OR NUMBERS CAN BE 
SUPPLIED. 

Order CASH'S NAME TAPES from 
department stores and other dealers — 
or direct from 




BOX 1 16 


BELLEVILLE. ONT. 


PRINTED NAME PRICES 

6doz. $2.00 9doz. $2.25 

12doz. $2.45 24 doz. $3.60 

No C.O.D. 's. Please mail cheque or 
money order. 

(Ontario Residents add 5% retail sates tax) 


SPORTS 100/PMIRT 


We specialize in Crests, Crested Shirts, 
Jackets etc., specially designed for your 
camp requirements. 


We carry complete inventory 

On: Trampolines. Volleyball, Softball, 
Basketball, Indoor and Outdoor 
Games, Life Saving Equipment, 
Shuffleboard, Tetherball, Archery. 
Flag Football, First Aid Kits a* 
wholesale prices. 


JACK WATSON 

SPORTS, INC. 

30 Mobile Dr., Toronto 16 


Phone 757-2844 free Catalogue 


GUMPERT'S FOR 73 

R.T.U. Puddings 

R.T.U. Pie Fillings 

R.T.U. Vienna 

R.T.U. Pizza Sauce 

Pizza Crust Mix 

R.T.U. Chicken Gravy 

R.T.U. Beef Gravy 

Sloppy Joe Mix 

R.T.U. Fruit Fillings 

Trip Lite Cheese Omelet Mix 

Trip Lite Chicken a la King 

Trip Lite Chicken Noodle Dinner 

S. GUMPERT CO. OF 
CANADA LTD. 

31 Brock Ave., Toronto 3, Ont. 
531-5758 


17 












CLASSIFIED ADS 


FOR SALE 

Established camp on 119 acres and 7 acre island with 
attractive lake frontage 125 miles north of Toronto. 

Reply to: 

Box 335, Canadian Camping Magazine 

PARTNER WANTED 

Partner wanted to invest in established Haliburton Highlands 
area camp. 

Reply to: 

Box 336, Canadian Camping Magazine 
WANTED 

CAMP SITE FOR SALE OR LEASE 

To accommodate between 100 to 200 campers. Within a 
radius of 175 miles from Toronto situated on a lake suitable 
for waterfront activities. 

Indoor plumbing and electricity desirable but not essential. 

Reply to: 

Box 25, Canadian Camping Magazine 

POSITION WANTED 

Camp Director, male, with experience as: counsellor, C.l.T. 
Director, Craft Director, Administrative Assistant, Programme 
Director and Camp Director seeks senior camping position. 

Reply to: 

Box 337, Canadian Camping Magazine 




f 


An adventure in 
eating! 

TRY OUR RANGE OF 


freeze dried meats 
freeze dried fruits 
freeze dried vegetables 
freeze dried main dishes etc. 

flew instant dinners 

FREEZE-DRY FOODS LIMITED 
579 Speers Road 
Oakville, Ontario, Canada 
(416) 844-1471 (416) 925-1014 



18 






OUR "VANGUARD" STYLE 
With Draining and Stacking Features 


4 


375 Danforth Road, 
Scarborough, Ont. 

698-2545 


ORDER NOW FOR BETTER 
ASSORTMENT 

WILL HOLD FOR CAMP OPENING 
LIMITED SUPPLY 


Pre-Camptime Offer of 
Substandards at Generous 
Discounts 


Items not Illustrated: 

• Vegetable Bowl 

• Platter 

• Pitcher 

• Tumbler 

• Creamer and Sugar 

• Salad Servers 

• Jam or Sugar Pot 

• Salt and Peppers 

• Soup Plate 

• Butter Dish and 
Cover 

• Gravy Boat 

Colours: Yellow, 
Green, Coral, Blue 



For the cleanest of 
camping, call for 
McKague. 

Your McKague man has it all—a complete range of products 
to assure you the cleanest camping conditions possible. 

From the McKemco family of fine cleaning supplies (the biggest 
in the business) he can provide you with chemicals and 
compounds for every campsite kitchen, sanitation and 
laundry purpose. 

From leading manufacturers he can supply you with the finest 
of laundry machinery equipment. 

And if your camp has a swimming pool, McKague has the 
ways to clean it and to keep it clean, with chemicals for filtration, 
chlorination, algae and alkalinity control, flocculation 
and coagulation. 

So for cleaner camping, be sure to contact your McKague 
representative soon. You'll be glad all season that you did. 




Over a Quarter of a Century of Service with Sales 

100 MIDWEST ROAD, SCARBOROUGH, ONTARIO 
and McKAGUE CHEMICALS (EASTERN) LTD. 

421 COURTEMANCHE AVENUE, MONTREAL EAST, QUEBEC 



7104 



CANADA’S LEADING MANUFACTURER AND 
DISTRIBUTOR OF SANITATION PRODUCTS 



EH Automatic Floor Scrubber-Vacuum 
I I Floor Machine Brushes & Accessories 
EH Germicidal Floor Detergents 
EH Floor Sealers 
EH Wax Remover 

EH Littervacs to 'clean up’ large areas 
EH All purpose Floor Absorbents 
EH Indoor-Outdoor Carpeting 
EH Housekeepers Utility Carts & Accessories 
EH Ice Melting Pellets 
EH Carpet Cleaning Equipment 


EH Liquid Toilet Soaps 

EH Soap Dispensers 

EH B.M.D. Drain Cleaner 

EH Self-Closing Waste Receptacles 

EH Disinfectants 

EH Toilet Bowl Cl eaner 

EH Sand Urns for Cigarettes etc. 

EH Electric Water Coolers 
EH Electric Foggers and Sprayers 
EH Powdered Toilet Soaps 


EH Floor Scrubbers & Polishers 

EH Floor Cleaning Compounds 

1 I Liquid Floor Waxes 

EH Polymer Floor Finishes 

EHSweeping Compounds 

EH Industrial Vacuum Cleaners 

EH Mopping Equipment 

EH Vinyl & Rubber Matting 

EH Mops, Brooms, Pails, Dust Pans 

EH Sponges, Cleaning Pads, Squeegees 

EH Rug & Upholstery Cleaners 


□ Wash room Air Fresheners 

EH Shower Slippers & Bath Mats 

EH Sanitary Napkins - Vending Machines 

EH Napkin Disposal Receptacles 

EH Urinal Deodorizers & Screens 

EH Ozi um Sanitizing Air Spray & Ozimatics 

EH Insecticides, Insect-o-Strip 

EH Water Cup Dispensers 

EH Dr.Brook Life-Saving Airway 



INDUSTRIAL PAPER AND 
DISPOSABLES PRODUCTS 



EH Paper Place Mats 
EH Paper Doilies 
EH Beverage Coasters 
EH Hot Drink Cups 
EH Paper Plates 

□ Linenized Paper Caps - adjustable to size 
EH Toilet Tissue 

EH Dish Washing Detergents & Dispensers 
EH Odourless Germicides & Bactericides 
EH Toilet Paper Holders 


□ Embossed Paper Tray Covers 
I 1 Serviettes - Embossed & Coloured 
1 I Paper Water Cups 
EHl Paper Towel Dispensers 
EH Paper Towels 
EH Toilet Seat Covers 
EH Paper Food Containers 
I I Dish De-Staining Compound (Plastic 
and China) 


so 


WOOD 


'Sanitation for the Nation' 


Regional Headquarters: TORONTO • MONTREAL .VANCOUVER • CALGARY • DARTMOUTH 50 Branches across Canada 
























WE HAVE A CANOE FOR EVERY PURPOSE 

Over 45 Models to choose from. 


Write to the Chestnut Canoe Co. for Free Literature and Prices 
















r: 


o 

o 

o 

X> 

<3 

cr: 


Dispose of camp food 
service problems with 

royal Chinet 

disposable plates and bowls 

Strong, attractive Royal CHINET food service products help you ... 

• DISPOSE OF DISHWASHING COSTS 

Cut the expense of installing, maintaining and manning equipment 
that is used only a few months of the year. 

• DISPOSE OF BREAKAGE 

Save yourself the trouble and expense of buying matching replace¬ 
ments for pieces that crack, chip and shatter. 

• DISPOSE OF FOOD WASTE 

You get exact portion control with Ro^al CHINET’s wide range of 
- £ sizes in regular and compartmented designs. 

i DISPOSE OF GERM COLLECTORS 


S2 CO * 


< s* 
o s 

a tj 
-3 c 

rn 

o • 

Jm 

ct; zz 


o :n 

6 

.n 

o c 

•r4 O 

a: f? 
.c 

fA o 
o 

^ C2 


Royal CHINET products are sterilized when manufactured and 
packaged. And there’s never a germ-collecting chip, crack or 
poorly washed dish. 

• DISPOSE OF IRRITATING NOISE 

Disposable service is silent service. Meals are relaxed without the 
clatter and crash of china or metal. 

ENVIRONMENTAL ADVANTAGES, TOO 

All good campers want to protect the environment. Royal CHINET prod¬ 
ucts are manufactured from a renewable resource. What’s more, they’re 
biodegradable ... molded of natural wood fibres that burn readily with 
little smoke. Even if discarded out-of-doors, Royal CHINET quickly de¬ 
composes in the earth. 

Get the full particulars now. Mail this coupon today. 

CANADIAN KEYES FIBRE COMPANY LTD. 
HANTSPORT, NOVA SCOTIA 

Please provide me with details of the variety and costs of Royal 
CHINET food service products. 

NAME 



COMPANY or CAMP 
ADDRESS 


(s4z —^2 































