. Canadian 

camping 

CAMPING...OUR PAST PRESENT and FUTURE. 



c.r. blackstock 


One of the features of the first 
camps was that you would be 
"roughing it"; that you would 
have few of the comforts of home; 
that you would, to a large degree 
have to take care of yourself. 
Ernest .Thompson Seton through 
his writings and the programs he 
developed for his Pioneers put the emphasis on learning the skills and knowledge of 
the Indian culture, and those that the explorer, trapper and pioneer used to sur- 
vive in the wilderness. (continued on page 5 ) 


The programs of organized camps 
have changed remarkably over the 
past fifty years just as society 
and our culture have changed. 

The present decade is a period 
when they are going through an¬ 
other marked metamorphosis. 





OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OFFICIELLE 

THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION / L'ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU CANADA 

TORONTO. ONTARIO M4P 1E1 


SUITE 203, 102 EGLINTON AVENUE EAST 
TELEPHONE (416) 488-7345 


l 


Vol. 30 No. 5 
October 1978 








a sense of loss 


Subscribe Now 




Everyone is gone now. Even the leaves 
are saying goodbyes to the trees. 

I looked up at the pumphouse and re¬ 
membered the many round happy faces 
looking down. For one instant the 
faces were still there, and with a 
magic puff, the wind blew it all away. 

The young children's scrapes and cuts 
are still felt in the infirmary, even 
though the children have left. 

The boats are empty, the waterfront 
bare. The foot-prints in the sand 
the only reminder of the laughter 
which once shattered the air. The 
sound of the waves now out-shout the 
giggles. 

The archery range is down, much to the 
enjoyment of the battered targets. 

In the lodge I still see the fire, 
hear the guitar and feel the warmth 
of many bright, happy, eager faces. 

The deer's head still overlooks the 
lodge. The deer has seen many sum¬ 
mers, many youngsters and many old¬ 
sters. He's witnessed the laughter, 
the crying, the arrivals and depar¬ 
tures. He has felt the growing up of 
boys to men and girls to women. What 
has taken place at this camp? Ask 
the deer: he knows........ 


_c AN Am ANJ) AM PI NG_ 

is published 6 times a year 

SUBSCRIPTION RATES 

1 year $5.00 
3 years $12.00 

Advertising Rates on request 


3n jfflemoriam 


It is with regret we note the passing of 
Mrs. R. C. Iatimer 
on 

May 27, 1978 


r\ 


Our deepest sympathy is extended to John R. 
Latimer, a past president of the C.C.A. and 
the present chairman of the National and In¬ 
ternational Conference Committee. 


by Tom Turriff 

Programme Director 
Elizabeth Brown Memorial Camp 
Minden, Ontario 


Weaknesses 

"People who have no weaknesses are 
terrible; there is no way of taking 
advantage of them." 

- Anatole France 


God wouldn't have 
given us feet if he 
didn’t mean for us to 
use them. 

Walk. 


PMnctPixnonM 
Walk a Nock.TtMlav. 


<4 

vinon^ 








By Gabrielle C. Winkel 
Illustrated by Carl Winkel 


Reprinted by permission from The Christian Science Monitor 
0 1978 The Christian Science Publishing Society 
All rights reserved 


No privacy. That was the main rea¬ 
son I had never wanted to go to a sum¬ 
mer camp. 

How could anyone ever have a moment 
alone when practically every move you 
made and every breath you took was 
with about a hundred other girls. No 
camp for me; I was used to my own room 
with lots of privacy. 

This changed one year when my mother 
heard about a camp where each camper 
and counselor had her own little dres¬ 
sing room. These cubicles or "cubies" 
are 6' X 6'. 

In preparation, I bought six yards 
of fabric as mentioned on the outfit¬ 
ters list, to decorate my cubie. Then 
I collected my favorite posters and a 
few other items I couldn't part with. 


When we arrived. I first saw the 
sleeping cabins which housed about 12 
persons. Then, in front of every two 
cabins was a very long building - the 
cubie house. My counselor took me 
down the hall past two sinks to my prl 
vate cubie. 



At first, I admit, I was not too im¬ 
pressed. It was only a square wooden 
room with a few shelves at various le¬ 
vels and a small window. But then I 
started to move in. 


First, my father put my trunk in as 
it was to be my dresser for the summer. 
Then a more seasoned camper, one of my 
cabinmates, showed me how to put up my 
cubie material. She had this tricky 
way of putting up the material and co- 
_(continued on page L ) 


3 




A CAMP THAT BUILDS IN SOME PRIVACY 


(continued from page 3 ) 


vering the thumbtacks at the same time. 

We put the material on the highest shelf making it a closet, the middle turned 
into a dresser, and the lower shelf next to it became a bench. Then we put up lit¬ 
tle curtains. By the end of day, all the campers had moved in. 

As I slowly walked down the hall, I couldn’t help but peek into each cubie. 
They were so different. One girl had cat pictures all over her walls, another had 
the latest teen stars, and my neighbor was a horse fan, even her material had horses 
on it. 

A dressing room first 

It didn't take long to learn why these cubies were so popular. Privacy among 
100 girls is a rarity. Naturally, it was a dressing room first, and then it was 
anything else - a place to be alone and dry after a swim class or to practice some 
lines for a play. Campers never really spent a long time in their cubies since 
there were a lot of activities to do at camp, but it was a nice place to be for a 
moment or two. 

Cubies also serve another purpose. They teach campers to be neat. There are 
name tags on every cubie door and under the camper 1 s name there ia a calendar that 
covers the camp season. Each day a member of the senior staff, those staff members 
who supervise the counselors, comes around and inspects the cubie and writes the 
score in the block of the day. 

For counselors, too 

Ten is perfect. If a camper keeps a perfect score of 10 all through the 
summer, then she gets a treat at the end of the season — usually an.ice creame 
sundae. Inspection can happen any time during the day, so campers are kept on 
their toes. I remember one day I received a 9 because my towel was messy. I 
was crushed 

Cubies are a blessing for counselors, too. Here the counselor can get a few 
moments of quiet before her campers wake up and after they are tucked in for the 
night. It also serves as a conference room for private chats. Counselors' cubies 
have private lights, rocking chairs and NO inspection. 

Camp Newfound and her cubies were both founded in 1914 by Elizabeth Horton 
who felt that it was the right of every girl to have a certain amount of privacy 
no matter where she was. Campers and counselors have been thanking her ever since. 




CAMPING ... OUR PAST, PRESENT AND FUTURE 


(continued from page l) 


— _ __ The "Y" and church camps had a religious em— 

phasis in their programs designed to develop 
■ an i deal > all-round personality. The sche- 
. - -=^=.^=irf^f- dules used in camping were patterned after 

the SC ^°°T timetables which was only natural 
8S m ° S ^ Cam ^ ^ rec ^ ors were school teachers 

j j While many of the activities were very dif- 

vT^rVYjf^yA—ferent from the academic subjects of school, 

^ the same teaching methods were applied to 

camp activities and took much of the risk 
and fun out of them. The classes were too 
formal and often too large - to the point where the individual got lost. 

Then the educators, the psychologist and the health and safety specialist got into 
the act. They put back more of the risk and chance to explore the unknown. These 
were good for camping and helped to establish reasonable standards of camping prac¬ 
tices and assurances to tthe public that camping was being properly conducted. 

More and more children were in the urban schools and going further in them. They 
were learning more, had better teachers, much improved facilities and equipment. 

But they got little learning experience outside the classroom in the real world, in 
the wilderness. 

Some schools, both public and private, introduced "school camping" and found that of¬ 
ten the amount and quality of the experience, even in a school time of five days, 
was much greater and certainly more vivid than a ■ &\A 

similar period in a classroom. This led many 

camps to look at their program - making them less £ 

formal. The camper groups and their leaders or /\ 

counsellors were encouraged to plan their own pro- A -& r^~~ 

grams. Exploration, discovery and their attendant tyr - i-,-^i^SrSgS 

risks, required foresight, planning and the ac- 

quiring of special skills, which led to more ad- 

venture; and camper satisfaction from the success- 

ful completion of the venture. 

(continued on page 6 ) 


5 




CAMPING ... OUR PAST, PRESENT AND FUTURE , , . , „ „ x 

• ' - (, continued from page 5 ) 

It is time again for camping to take a look ahead; to see how it is able to change 

the program emphasis to better serve our culture and society which will have new 

needs in the next decade. 

Lome Brown, (former director of Camp Deka, British Columbia) some years ago, led an 
informal discussion on the possiblity of camps working and exchange of camper groups 
with one another. A camp in one region of the country would exchange another group 
with another camp in a different region. It might be possible, in the course of 
three summers for a camper to acquire experiences down by the sea, in the plains coun¬ 
try and in the mountains. 

Perhaps camps could give their youngest campers the basic skills for wilderness 
camping in their region. This would prepare them to move on, to go on the extended 
travel camping which is more adventuresome. 

We do have vast areas of wilderness in Canada. Fewer and fewer people know how to 
survive on their own, to live off the land, to protect the wilderness and themselves. 
Camping should risk new ventures, should lead the way, should inject a love of this 
land and its people and set an example which will cause others to want to tread on 
the same trails. 

( The illustrations used in this article were 

j . reprinted from the brochure of 

>r& Algonquin Waterways Wilderness 

_ _ _ -' ' 271 Danforth Avenue 

^ y . Toronto, Ont. M4K 1N2 


The artist is 
Mr. Keith Scott 


Report 

The following four pages are devoted to a 'Report on the Findings 
of a Survey of Camp Directors" by Marvin Granek. In the course of writing his thesis 
for a Masters degree in Recreation at the University of Waterloo, Mr. Granek asked 
certain camp directors to respond to a series of attitude statements. In his report 
he summarizes the results of the survey, discusses his findings and makes some recom¬ 
mendations to the C.C.A. Please address any comments you may care to make to Mr. M. 

^Granel^^c/oJUie^/^C^^^W^Eglijnton^Ave^^^^3u^e^0^^rororrto^^irt^^Lj^IEjU^^^^^ 

’ 6 • 




"REPORT ON THE FINDINGS OF A SURVEY OF CAMP DIRECTORS" 








One of the challenges in doing research of any kind is reporting the findings 
to the practitioner, who, in this case, not only were the source of the data, but 
also the body to whom the results might have the most meaning. It is with this in 
mind that I would like to present some of the findings related to a study that was 
undertaken to fulfil the requirements for a Master's degree in Recreation at the 
University of Waterloo. The study was entitled "An Investigation Into the Attitudes 
of Resident Camp Administration Towards Critical Problems in Resident Camping", and 
was a partial replication of one that was carried out in the United States with the 
sponsorship of the American Camping Association. 

The camp administrators chosen were asked to respond to a series of attitude 
statements, indicating their degree of agreement or disagreement, in each of eight 
areas: 1) resident camp program; 2) resident camp personnel; 3) public interpreta¬ 
tion of resident camping; 4) use and availability of the natural environment; 5) 
national organization; 6) competition of other summer interests; 7) evaluation and 
appraisal; and 8) accommodation for special needs. 

The information presented below is a summary of the findings of the study 
■followed by a discussion of those factors which would appear to have the most influ¬ 
ence on an administrator's attitude in the areas outlined. 

Generally speaking, all the administrators agree that there is a problem in 
holding the interest of older campers. One of the implications of such a finding is 
that traditional forms of programming for older campers may have to be re-examined 
in light of changing needs and experiences of teenagers. Private camps appear to 
be having less difficulty in challenging older campers, as are those camps serving 
only males. 

The administrators surveyed believed that the principles of education, social 
work and other allied disciplines were pervasive throughout resident camping, and 
in line with this thinking, were unanimous in their belief that resident camping 
should be provided for more children who cannot afford it. Although somewhat of a 
motherhood statement, it expresses, nevertheless, a desireable objective which admin¬ 
istrators can work towards, either individually or collectively. 

In the area of resident camp personnel, it seems that professional development 
concerns, including increased education programs and maintaining basic personnel and 
professional standards for camp administrators, are more likely to be addressed by 
agency camps as opposed to any other type. Private camps give Indications of being 
least likely to challenge the status quo. 

The administrators felt that public interpretation of resident camping is an 
area that has not been sufficiently addressed. They stress a need for increased_ 



communication between professional camping associations and the general public, the 
desired effect being a greater awareness of the values of resident camping. 

Support for greater investment in research on the part of the Canadian Camping 
Association comes from two groups which are not necessarily mutually exclusive, agency 
camps and Quebec camps. Related to this support for research is a belief, on the 
part of agency administrators moreso than others, that the Canadian Camping Associa- 
tion should provide a greater variety of training opportunities for its members. The 
fact that the administrators were undecided about the differentiation between the 
provincial and Canadian Camping Associations indicates a need to examine the functions 
and services of each organization to insure there is as little duplication of services 
as possible. 

Generally speaking, all camps are having some difficulty filling their quota 
of campers, although church camps less so than others. Quebec camps are having more 
difficulty getting campers than are camps in other regions. This may tie in to the 
fact that Quebec camps are most in favour of applied research, perhaps with an eye 
to alleviating the problem of declining enrolment. Camps in eastern Canada are least 
concerned about losing their staff to other sectors of the economy. In light of the 
higher unemployment rates in the east, it would appear that staff positions would be 
more likely to be filled than in other parts of Canada, where summer jobs for students 
although still tight, might be more available. 

The importance of ongoing evaluation in the context of well-defined plans and 
objectives was strongly supported by all the administrators. A majority of the admin¬ 
istrators felt that an attempt should be made to evaluate those intangible benefits 
that are derived from a resident camping experience, which, although more difficult 
to document, would provide more insight into the values of resident camping. 

Administrators generally agreed, in principle, with the idea of integration of 
special populations into a "normal" resident camp setting. They did, however, recog¬ 
nize the problems involved, among them, lack of trained staff, and the variety of inform 
ation and knowledge about the process of normalization. Part of the willingness to 
integrate their camps may be attributed to a very practical concern, namely the declin 
ing enrolment of campers in general. 

Discussion 

In light of the findings it would appear that of the 33 attitude statements, 

11 of them had no relationship to any of the background characteristics of the camps 
and the administrators. Certain of the background characteristics or independent 
variables would appear to be more influential than others. 

The type of camps an administrator directs would seem to have some bearing on 
their responses to certain of the attitude statements. Administrators of agency camps 



generally feel more positive to change, especially in the area of professional devel¬ 
opment conerns. This might possibly be seen as a kind of spillover effect from the 
practices of the agencies themselves, which tend to be involved in in-service train¬ 
ing and program evaluation on a regular basis. It would seem natural that the notion 
of professional development would carry over into the resident camp setting. 

Private camps enjoy the luxury of being accountable only to themselves. This 
would obviate, to an extent, the necessity of becoming involved in educational or 
professional development programs. That is not to say that private camps do not 
engage in this kind of activity, but merely to point out that the support systems or 
resources, human and otherwise, are not as accessible as they are in agency camps. 

Church camps are distinguished from other types of camps in four ways: 1) 1 

sponsorship of the church; 2) religious leadership; 3) teaching of scriptures and 
4) outward expressions of worship. With this kind of focus, administrators or church 
camps would necessarily exhibit different attitudes toward some of the problems 
delineated in the questionnaire. More than any other type, church camps feel that 
there is a lack of adequate programming for older campers. This may reflect the fact 
that church camps tend to be more traditional in their program design, which might 
be adequate for younger campers, but not innovative or diverse enough for older campers 
who have already been through the system. The idea of tradition or consistency may 
be advantageous from the point of view of filling camper quotas. Church camps appear 
to have less difficulty filling their camps. Administrators of church camps appear 
to be non-committal in their perceptions of the role of the Canadian Camping Associa¬ 
tion. This would seem to indicate a lack of identification with the natural organi¬ 
zation or else a lack of information about the functions of the Canadian Camping 
Association. 

Location of camp, i.e., in what region it is situated would appear to have 
some influence on the administrators' responses to some of the statements. Historic¬ 
ally the tradition of resident camping has been centred mainly in Ontario and Quebec. 

As a result, the popularity of resident camping in these two regions may have peaked. 
Indeed Quebec and Ontario seem to be having more difficulty filling their quota of 
campers than are camps in eastern and western Canada. Demographic changes in the 
population, however, have also contributed to a diminishing supply of campers, although 
the possibility of new markets has been opened up. 

Regional disparities and varying economic conditions across the country may 
produce conditions which would influence the responses of the administrators to various 
problems. Losing potential staff to other sectors for example does not seem as much 
of a problem to administrators in the east, given the high unemployment rate, espec¬ 
ially among students. 




It seems that of the thirteen background characteristics of the camps and the 
administrators, type of camp and location of camp had the most influence in terms of 
the administrators' responses to the attitude statements. Although each of the remain¬ 
ing independent variables had a significant relationship to at least one of the state¬ 
ments, there does not appear to be a logical basis for some of the relationships. It 
may be that some were due to chance while others were due to misinterpretation of the 
questions. 

On the basis of the findings, the following recommendations are made to the 
Canadian Camping Association: 

1) The CCA should attempt to develop a higher public profile in order to rein¬ 
force the concept of camping as a recreational, educational and therapeutic 
force within society. 

2) The CCA should undertake a study of the feasibility of creating a camp 
director certification program which would serve as a model for continuing 
professional developments. 

3) Efforts should be made, either at the provincial or national organization 
level, to encourage short-term staff exchanges between camps in different 
provinces or between different types of camps. 

Postscript 

I would like to thank all those administrators who responded to my question¬ 
naire. Financial constraints prevent me from mailing a copy of the findings to each 
of you who indicated a desire for one. Instead, I have chosen to present the findings 
in the Camping Magazine with the hope that it reaches the right people. 


- COMING EVENTS - 


October 26-28, 1978 
January 26-28, 1979 
February 19-24, 1979 
March 1-3, 1979 
May 10-13, 1979 
November 1-3, 1979 


C.C.A. Board Meeting St. John's, Newfoundland 

C.C.A. Board Meeting Banff, Alberta 

A.C.A. International Conference Minneapolis, Minn. 

O.C.A. Annual Conference Toronto, Ontario 

C.C.A. Annual Meeting Nova Scotia 

C.C.A. Board Meeting Saskatoon, Saskatchewan 


Please send the dates of your meetings and conferences as soon as they are known, 
so that we can expand "Coming Events" in the next issue of "Canadian Camping" 
to include announcements of happenings in all the provincial associations. 


10 



CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 
ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU CANADA 

Provincial Camping Associations 


British Columbia Camping Association 

Dr, Don Arnold, President 
633 Nest 8th Avenue 
Vancouver, B.C. V5Z 1C7 
Phone: (604) 879-5100 (0) 
Co-ordinator: Miss Nancy Greig 


Association des Camps du Quebec, Inc, 

M, Rene Rousseau, President 
14 e avenue 
Val-Morin, Quebec 
Phone: (819) 326-3753 
(514) 861-7177 


Alberta Camaping Association 

Mr. Lou Lanier, President 
c/o IMCA, 332 6th Ave., S.W. 
Calgary, Alberta T2P OR5 
Phone: (403) 269-6156 (0) 

Saskatchewan Camping Association 

Mr. Laverne Jantz, President 
Box 7543 

Saskatoon, Sask. S7K 2L5 
Phone: (306) 363-4728 

Manitoba Camping Association 

Mrs. Shanley Parkinson, President 
c/o 200 Vaughan St. 2nd Floor 
Winnipeg, Manitoba R3C 0V8 
Phone: (204) 942-5566 (o) 

Ontario Camping Association 

Miss Jocelyn Palm, President 
102 Eglinton Ave., E. # 203 
Toronto, Ontario M4P 1E1 
Phone: (416) 486-8630 (0) 
Secretary: Mrs. F. R. Robinson 

Quebec Camping Association. Inc. 

Dr. Ken R. Willis, President 
2233 Belgrave Ave., 

Montreal, Quebec H4A 2L9 
Phone: (514) 489-1541 (0) 
Secretary: Miss Frances Kelly 


ACQ-QCA Provincial Board 

Abbe Robert Maisonneuve, President 
1415 est, rue Jarry 
Montreal, Quebec H2E 2Z7 
Phone: (5U) 374-4700 ex 447 (0) 

Executive Director: M. Raymond Hade 

New Brunswick Camping Association 

Mr. Robert Cameron, President 
Recreation and Parks Dept. 

City Hall - Main Street 
Moncton, New Brunswick 
Phone: (506) 854-3333 (0) 

384-3095 (H) 

Nova Scotia Camping Association 

Mr. George Matthews, President 
Box 696 

Halifax, Nova Scotia B3J 3H5 
-Phone: (902) 424-4329 (0) 

865-2715 (H) 

Newfoundland and Labrador Camping Association 

Mrs. Elizabeth Wegenast, President 
Box 4188 

St. John's, Newfoundland A1C 5Z7 
Phone: (709)753-0027 


National Office 

Mr. Jack Pearse, President 
102 Eglinton Ave., E. # 203 
Toronto, Ontario M4P 1E1 
Phone: (416) 488-7345 
Office Manager: Mrs. R.M. Roy 





Canadian camping association 
association des camps du Canada 

SUITE 203. 102 EGLINTON AVENUE EAST 
TORONTO. ONTARIO M4P 1E1 



ISSN 008-3119 


CAMP RICHILDACA (Day Camp) 
Mr. & Mrs. ft. J. Babcock, 
Keitleby, Ont. 

LOG 1J0 



n'peAoiim ©qq uo suxb.i sjCbwx 8 qx 

„ *30.180 jCpoqaUIOS ‘99{) 

„*qo0j.i9d Zqqiacl ui,x qnq ‘o^ 

„*joqons b Suxpqoq S0AB9X 
jo oqxd 8 oqux dumC J9A0^ 

,, * 0UIXJ9JXX UftO 3,0UO UX 
p9zxuSoo0j; ©q oq Suxqixjqq s,qx 

„ *jCbs x qsqft oq uoq 
sxx 9UO0UIOS 3ABq oq p9sn qou m,x 


11 

11 

11 


II 


II 


II 


u’PI° saB0iC XX s s,0q U0qw ©pxad sxq XT 8 ssox oq 0ABq q,upxnoqs uosaod v„ 


siriNfad do saova am wom aaNvaao ‘sais no sihohohi awos 








