ISSN 008-3119 





nodion 
comping 








jan. edition 1976 



OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OFFICIELLE 


THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION / L'ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU CANADA 







CANADIAN CAMPING 
ASSOCIATION 

Suite 203, 102 Eglinton Avenue East 
Toronto, Ontario M4P 1E1, Canada 


Executive: 

President: 

Vice President: 

Secretary: 

Treasurer: 


Ron Johnstone 
Jack Pearse 
Jay Haddad 
Bill Swift 


“CANADIAN CAMPING" 
PERSONNEL 


Managing Director: 
Editor: 

Advertising Manager: 
Circulation Manager: 
Directory Chairman: 


Jocelyn Palm 
Helen E. Stewart 
Doug Dent 
Mary Pat Bradbury 
Peter Gilbert 


table of contents-sommaire 


Vol. 28 No. 2 

January Edition 1976 edition de janvier 

VIEWPOINT. 3 

by Ron Johnstone 

ADVENTURE VERSUS RISK.,- 5 

by Jocelyn Palm 

THE DAY OF THE WOLF. 8 

by Ann Prewitt 

THE BUSINESS OF CAMPING. 10 

by Doug Dent 

IN MEMORIAM. 11 

by Barbara Taylor 

CHILDREN AND THE OUTDOORS. 12 

by John Pratt 

OUTDOOR COOKERY. 16 

by Helen Stewart 

TIPS. 16 

by Helen Stewart 

THEOUTDOORSMAN. 17 

by Larry R. Johnston 

THE WILDERNESS STEAM BATH . 18 

by Mors Kochanski 


"Canadian Camping" is the official publica¬ 
tion of the Canadian Camping Association. 
Published four times a year. 

Subscription rates: 

$5.00 - 1 year; $12.00 - 3 years 
Single copy - $1.50 


CANOEING ALONG THE CHURCHILL . 
Reprint from The Leader-Post, Regina 

J. HARRY EBBS. 

by Bruce W. Hodgins 

LUNCH ON THE SKI TRAIL. 

by F.M. Van Wagner 

CAMP IS. 

by Made/ene Allen 

CLASSIFIED ADS. 


22 

23 

24 

25 

26 


CCA membership includes subscription 


Cover Couverture 

designed by Violet A. Cat!in, Graphics, Typesetter for Canadian Camping 


PROVINCIAL OFFICES 

B.C. Camping Association 
633 W. 8th Avenue, Vancouver, B.C. 
(Rick Ryan, President) 

Alberta Camping Association 
332 - 6th Avenue S.W. 
Calgary, Alta. T2P 0R1 
(Nestor Kelba, President) 

Saskatchewan Camping Association 
P.0. Box 823 
Regina, Saskatchewan 
(Margaret Pezderic, President) 

Manitoba Camping Association 
385 St. Mary Ave. 
Winnipeg, Man. R3C 0N1 
(Marvin Wall, President) 


Ontario Camping Association 
102 Eglinton Avenue East, Suite 203 
Toronto, Ont. M4P 1E1 
(Jack Pearse, President) 

L 'association des camps du Quebec 
and 

Quebec Camping Association 
1415 est rue Jarry, Montreal, Due. H2E 1A7 
(Abbe Rosaire Corbin, president) 

English Section 
2233 Belgrave Ave. 

Montreal, Due. H4A 2L9 
(Val Willis, President) 

Section frangaise 

1415 est rue Jarry, Montreal, Due. H2E 1A7 
(Abbe Robert Maisonneuve, president) 


BUREAUX PROVINCIAUX 

New Brunswick Camping Association 
Box 5, Bath, New Brunswick 
(Rev. Philip Giberson, President) 

Nova Scotia Camping Association 
Box 3243S, Halifax, Nova Scotia B3J 3H5 
(Rev. David Boston, President) 

Newfoundland & Labrador 
Camping Association 
Box 4188, St. John's, Newfoundland 
(Barbara Taylor, President) 


REPRODUCTION. IN ANY FORM, OF 
MATERIAL IN "CANADIAN CAMPING” 
MUST HAVE WRITTEN PERMISSION OF 
THE CANADIAN CAMPING 
ASSOCIATION 





















viewpoint/point de vue 



V 


—by Ron Johnstone 

President , Canadian Camping Association 


There is much talk in the world today about guidelines.... 
our Prime Minister makes much of the fact that we are 
talking about guidelines, not controls, toward economic 
recovery. People of our nation are being challenged to 
change their attitude about their expectations of Canada. 
What can Canada do for its people? How can we better 
attain the “good life”? How do we share our resources so 
we can provide the “good life” for all our people? So, our 
Government, in its wisdom, has developed guidelines for 
industry, for labour, for prices and for profits. 

In youth camping we call our guidelines, standards.... 
desirable camping practices towards better camping; stan¬ 
dards that the camping movement uses to protect the 
camping public; standards that we use to protect the oper¬ 
ating director or agency; standards that are the growing 
wisdom of our past, applied to our future. They ensure 
that our youngsters have a growth experience both in a 
physical sense and even more importantly in an emotional 
sense. To move along the path of life without guidelines 
or standards is a haphazard way, a way without any direc¬ 
tion .... we might attain our goals or we might just fall 
by the wayside. 

We in youth camping deal with the most valuable com¬ 
modity a society produces .... its youth! They are the 
future .... they will be guiding the destiny of our nation 
when we are all gone. Haphazard wandering is not good 
enough! 

Adolescence, by definition, means to grow toward 
maturity! Toward implies a route, a path, a direction. 
Youth camping is dedicated to helping our young people 
along that road. The road can be steep, it can be rough or 
it can be smooth and carefree but challenging. All youth 
needs a helping hand, a sense of being understood and 
being guided when they come to the forks or when they 
come to the rocky going or the necessity to cross a rough 
portage. 

The Most Rev. Wilbur Howard, Moderator of the United 
Church of Canada, has described camping as simple living 
in the out-of-doors. What better out-of-doors than this 
great land of ours! It has infinite variety so that there is a 
Camp for every youngster. There are the Day Camps for 
the first and early learning experiences and we have the 
broad and beautiful waters of our coasts; the soul inspiring 
heights of our mountains; the vast horizons of our prairies; 
and the quiet seclusion of our northern lakes. 

Camping has been described as adventure in the out-of- 
doors .... imagine the adventure of your very first 
sunrise; of your first smell of woodsmoke filtering through 
the pines; the adventure of a rabbit hopping through the 


II est souvent question aujourd’hui d’orientations . . . . le 
Premier Ministre fait etat d’orientations et non de mesures 
de controle, en vue d’une reprise economique. Les canadiens 
sont mis au defi de modifier leurs attitudes touchant ce 
qu’ils attendent de leur pays. Que peut faire le Canada pour 
ses citoyens? Comment pouvons-nous realiser une “societe 
meilleure”? Comment partageons-nous nos resources afin 
que tous beneficient de cette “nouvelle societe”? Pour ce 
faire notre gouvernement a developpe des orientations pour 
I’industrie, les travailleurs, les prix et les revenu. 

Dans les camps de vacance nos orientations sont les 
normes qui visent a ameliorer le rendement des camps, a 
proteger les parents, le directeur ou les organismes respon- 
sables de camps de vacance. Ces normes, qui sont le fruit 
de nos experiences passees, assurent I’avenir de nos camps. 
Elies sont la garantie que nos campeurs vivront des expe¬ 
riences profitables tant au plan physique que moral. Avancer 
dans la vie sans orientation, sans norme, au hasard d’une 
sante sans panneau indicateur, c’est risquer de se fourvoyer. 

Nous qui oeuvrons dans les camps, nous nous voyons 
confier la plus grande richesse de notre societe .... la 
jeunesse. L’avenir repose sur eux . . . . ils seront les leaders 
du pays quand nous n’y serons plus. Les demi-mesures ne 
suffisent pas. 

L’adolescent chemine vers la maturite. Pour cheminer 
il faut suivre une route, un sentier, une direction. La vie de 
camp a pour objet d’aider les jeunes dans ce cheminement. 
II peut etre abrupt, difficile, libre et facile mais seme de 
defis. Tous les jeunes ont besoin d’un coup de main, de 
sentir qu’ils sont compris, d’etre guides a un carrefour, en 
terrain rocailleux ou sur un portage difficile. 

Le Reverend Wilbur Howard, Moderateur de I’Eglise-Unie 
du Canada a decrit la vie de camp comme une vie simple en 
pleine nature. La diversite des grand espaces de notre pays 
fait qu’il s’y trouve un camp pour chaque enfant. 

II y a les camps de jour pour I’enfant qui en est a sa 
premiere experience. Puis il y a I’immensite de I’ocean, 
I ’altitude de nos montagnes, les vastes horizons des prairies 
et la solitude des grands lacs du nord! 

La vie de camp c’est une aventure en pleine nature. 
Rappelez-vous la premiere fois ou vous avez observe un 
lever de soleil, hume I’odeur d’un feu de camp, vu un lievre 
se faufiler dans les buissons, entendu le cri du huard le soir, 
ou la course de I’original a travers la foret, la premiere nuit 
ou vous avez couche a la belle etoile, imaginant dans le 
mystere de la nuit que vous etiez un voyageur d’autrefois. 

Tout changement est une aventure, un defi. Dans les 
camps, I’adolescent qui devient moniteur rencontre un veri¬ 
table defi. Nous en avons vu plusieurs accepter ce defi de 


3 


brush; the plaintive call of the loon on a quiet, still summer 
night; the crash of the moose as it ploughs through the 
forest; the adventure of your first time sleeping under the 
stars; the mystery of the shadow that hides the unknown 
and allows the fertile imagination to retreat to the Canadian 
heritage of the voyageur. 

There is much adventure and challenge in change! We 
in youth camping have seen that challenge in the growth 
that is wrought on that trip from adolescent to camp 
counsellor. We have seen the youngsters take on that 
challenge of Camp, of growing up, of becoming mature 
adults and continuing their camping interest as camp 
leaders and counsellors. 

Camping is people living with people. It is not always 
the experiences that are the memories of Camp but rather 
the new close friend or the counsellor who cared. The 
director, who at his tallest .... stooped to listen and to 
care, and above all to understand. He understood the 
nervousness of a new experience. He understood what it 
was like to be away from home for the very first time. 
He understood the challenge of youth as they reached 
out to test authority. He had the understanding spirit to 
work with youth in this adventure in the out-of-doors! 

Youth camping in Canada is unique! It is youngsters 
leaving home for extended periods to enjoy our country, 
under trained leaders who do and can provide the guide¬ 
lines so necessary for youth who are treading the difficult 
road to maturity. 

We in youth camping are working with the future. We 
are working with the leaders of tomorrow. We are helping 
to mould the viewpoint of tomorrow's Canada . . . . 
tomorrow’s world. This is a challenge we do not take 
lightly .... the Canadian Camping Association is dedicated 
to providing leadership for the most important trip our 
youth will ever take! 


croissance, devenir adultes et approfondir leur interet pour 
le Plein Air et la jeunesse en devenant moniteurs et meme 
directeurs de camps. 

Vivre au camp c’est aussi vivre avec des gens. Souvent on 
ne se rappellera pas d’abord les evenements vecus au camp, 
mais I’ami qu’on y a fait, le moniteur sympathique, le 
directeur qui au plus fort de son boulot .... s’est arrete 
pour ecouter, s’interesser et comprendre: comprendre I’en- 
fant nerveux devant une nouvelle experience; comprendre 
ce que c’est que de quitter la maison pour la premiere fois; 
comprendre le probleme du jeune moniteur qui essaye son 
authorite . . . . le directeur capable de travailler avec des 
jeunes dans la grande aventure de la vie de Plein Air. 

Les camps de jeunes au Canada sont unique. Les jeunes 
quittent leur famille pour une longue periode, et y viennent 
pour jouir de la nature de leur pays, guides par un personnel 
sympathique sur le chemin de la maturite. 

Nous, les responsables de camps, nous fagonnons I’avenir. 
Nous travail Ions avec les leaders de demain. Nous contri- 
buons a fa^onner les attitudes du Canada. C’est un defi que 
nous acceptons serieusement .... I’Association desCamps 
du Canada suscite le leadership necessaire au voyage le plus 
important que fera jamais notre jeunesse. 



CAMPS FOR SALE AND WANTED 


Camps in Muskoka-Parry Sound-Haliburton areas for 
sale. All are completely equipped — some have camper 
followings. Prices range from $100,000 to $350,000. 


Camps wanted in all areas. If you desire advice or 
assistance with regards to purchasing or selling a camp, 
please contact me. There is no obligation. 

All enquiries treated with strictest confidence. 


Bert Danson-Camp Consultant-Young & Biggin Ltd., Realtor 

3284 Yonge St., Toronto, Ontario M4N 3M7 (416) 487-7101 


GROUP ACCOMMODATION 
-SUMMER OLYMPICS- 
IN MONTREAL 

At Green Acres Country Day Camp, a short distance north of 
Montreal. Extensive facilities including: Olympic size pool, 
Bar-B-Que area for cook-outs, etc. Indoor sleeping accommo¬ 
dation, modern toilets. Directors available to provide assist¬ 
ance, supervision, emergency attention, etc. 

Write: Green Acres Day Camp, 

4810 Mariette Ave., Montreal, Quebec 
or call (514)488-9148 


P.G. GILBERT, M.R.A.I.C., ARCHITECT 

PLANNING AND BUILDING CONSULTANT TO CAMPS 


13 MAPLE AVENUE, TORONTO, ONTARIO M4W 2T5 
(416) 921-7384 

Professor, Ryerson Poly technical Institute, Toronto 
(416) 595-5189 


baythorn 

graphics 


"Quality printing at sensible prices" 

31 Progress Ave., Unit 13, Scarborough, Ont. M1P 4S6 
Telephone: (416) 293-8276 

PRINTERS OF THE CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 


4 








Adventure 

• evsus Uisk 

by J ocelyn Palm 

Executive Director, Royal Life Saving Society Canada 
Presentation to The National Outdoor and 
Environmental Education Conference October 4, 1975 


INTRODUCTION 

Because the title of this paper implies a comparison, a 
definition of terms is necessary at the outset. The words 
“adventure” and “adventurous activities” imply those oppor¬ 
tunities which tend to give participants more quantitative 
rather than qualitative experiences. Adventurous activities 
in this case include exciting, physically demanding and 
mentally challenging situations:- such as those found in 
climbing, canoeing, Scuba diving, solo camping, sailing, etc. 
The continuing demand for such activities is evidenced in 
the sales figures for canoes, power craft, sailboats and 
camping equipment of all kinds. In becoming appreciative 
of our Canadian Heritage there are increasing examples of 
pioneer-type activities. Many of the things the pioneers did 
in order to survive, we are now doing for “kicks”. In so 
doing we expose ourselves to adventures; but, also to 
dangers and risks. Risk may be defined as the exposure of 
the participant to injury as a result of the adventure. 

THE QUESTION 

These definitions of adventure and risk bring the terms 
closely together. At some point we perhaps make a “trade¬ 
off’ and justify risks by convincing ourselves that the 
excitement, challenge and satisfaction far outweigh the 
risks and the need for caution. We may dismiss all risks 
below a certain worry threshold, weigh the risks above that 
level and consider the benefits. The question for the Out¬ 
door Educator becomes, “How much adventure for how 
much risk?” This is a major issue when one is making the 
decision for those less knowledgeable and less skilled than 
themselves. 

In order to systematically prepare to answer the “Adven¬ 
ture versus Risk” question, leaders might begin with a listing 
of the following: 

a) The activities to which the participants will be exposed. 

b) The equipment required to accomplish these activities. 

c) The environment in which the activities are to be 
enjoyed. 

This last point is sometimes forgotten. For example, 
planners forget that a canoe trip in early spring or late fall 
adds the dimension of cold water immersion, a factor that 
is far more critical at times other than the warm summer 
season. 

The next steps might be: 

1. Identification of the sources of adventure and of 
risk. The leadership must be very familiar with the 
activity(ies) to which they intend to expose students 
in order to identify all the factors. 

2. Attempt to separate what is justifiable risk and what 
is unacceptable and unnecessary risk. All types of 
injuries are to be considered; the injuries a participant 


could inflict upon himself, the injuries resulting from 
mistakes or errors in coping with the environment 
and equipment, and injuries participants might inflict 
upon each other. 

3. Take measures to minimize the risks that will be 
taken. This may require the elimination of certain 
activities from the program or may require a series of 
steps to reduce the severity of the risk. The latter 
step is usually the one taken and may, for example, 
be a decision to switch to an easier route of a canoe 
trip or a climb, rather than to eliminate the activity 
altogether. 

There is a good deal of work in developing these three 
steps; but, as a result of the thinking, risks tend to be 
minimized. Leaders must look at both positive and nega¬ 
tive:- the opportunities for adventure and the degree of risk. 

PREPARATION FOR ADVENTURE 

With that planning complete, educators might look to 
the real preparation for the event. The following seem to be 
key factors in maximum adventure and minimum risk. 

1. Awareness of personal physical ability: 

Does each participant know his/her degree of physical 
skill in the activities? 

Do participants know the extent to which they will be 
physically tested? Have they proven to themselves that 
they have a fighting chance of meeting these demands? 

2. Knowledge of the activity: 

Do participants have the theoretical knowledge to per¬ 
form the basic skills required? Has this information been 
presented in such a way that learning in the environment 
can be applied in another situation? 

Do participants know the sources of fun, of adventure 
and of challenge which they will or may face? 

Are participants aware of possible problems which may 
arise? 

Do they have the necessary knowledge to deal with such 
problems on their own? 

To what extent can participants depend on leaders when 
problems arise? 

3. Psychological preparation: 

This is a complex factor. Usually psychological prepara¬ 
tion must be specifically related to the activity as well as 
generalizations for all activities. 

Are participants prepared for the effects upon themselves 
and upon the total group of the excitements, do they 
realize that people sometimes get carried away with 
excitements and thrilling sensations and in so doing 
forget basic skills and knowledge? 

We are well aware of such problems in life saving emer¬ 
gencies because rescuers have subsequently reported that 


5 



they had the skills and the theories but they were not 
ready for the unpleasantness of pushy uncontrollable 
crowds, of violent regurgitation of victims while rescuers 
performed A.R., of sobbing relatives and friends close by 
the rescuers, etc. 

Do participants know some of the manifestations of 
panic and fear? 

Do they have some hints on how to deal with these 
mental gymnastics? 

4. Staff training: 

Do leaders have the skills for the activity? 

Do leaders have the safety skills in order to perform 
when a problem occurs? 

What sort of leader-to-participant and leader-to-leader 
relationship is encouraged and developed? 

Can leaders inspire confidence in the participants? 

What credibility does the leader have with the partici¬ 
pants? 

Can the leaders take command when necessary, permit 
freedoms wherever possible? 

Can leaders encourage exploration and stifle panic as 
required? 

Have leaders been made aware of subtle hints of fear in 
participants? 

Do leaders recognize the influence of peer group pressure, 
the fact that an individual’s desire to do an activity may 
not be desire at all, but pressure from peers? 

5. Identification of rides and legislation related to the 
activity: 

Are leaders and participants thoroughly familiar with 
permissable excesses and the limits imposed? 

Legislation is a consideration here. Laws have made signi¬ 
ficant impacts on many activities, particularly those 
relating to water sports. We have legislation respecting 
lifeguards and concerning lifejackets and Personal Flota¬ 
tion Devices which are recent changes. 

Teachers have been embroiled in law suits and have lost 
their cases in court resulting in a public suspicious rather 
than enthusiastic for outdoor adventure. 

6. Medical approval: 

Do participants have a medical check which is specific 
for the demands of the adventurous activity? 

Where an educational institution encourages people into 
risk, such medical approval is advisable. A Scuba diver 
requires a different medical evaluation than a backpacker. 

7. Equipment and facility evaluation: 

Is there sufficient equipment? 

Is the facility suitable for that type of equipment? 

Does the equipment require continuous check before 
and after use? 

Is there enough space in the facility? 

8. Communication: 

Do participants understand the need for communication 
amongst each other when engaged in adventurous acti¬ 
vities? 

This important aspect of preparation is seen during 
various initiative tests. A line of blindfolded students 
are following one another when one stumbles and falls 
from a height. The student who fell does not tell the 
next person in line that she stumbled until that person 
falls on top of her; then the communication begins and 
the third person becomes aware that she should wait and 
that a jump from a height is required. 

How do staff and students communicate? 


Is there a pattern, a chain of command for straight¬ 
forward communicating? 

Who makes decisions when an accident occurs? 

It is interesting that when a real problem arises during a 
life saving exam that everyone looks to the Examiner 
for direction even though the candidates have the re¬ 
sources to cope with the situation themselves. 

When actions and plans are not clear, do leaders know 
that this may reveal itself in joking, horseplay, hostility 
for the task, withdrawal by individuals, formation of 
sub-groups, etc.? 

9. Awareness of limitations: 

The magnitude of risks and the corresponding degree of 
adventure may not be equally perceived by students and 
leaders, nor indeed by any two participants. Experience 
seems to be a vital factor in risk perception. For this 
reason, students often experience a greater sense of 
adventure for emergencies and lack the perspective 
possessed by leaders as a result of much experience. 
Each participant should have an awareness of their limi¬ 
tations. “Thought is born of failure. Only when action 
fails to satisfy human needs is there ground for thought.” 1 
Unfortunately this quote is true. Only as a result of mis¬ 
takes do we stop and attempt to come to grips with our 
limitations. This hindsight should be changed to fore¬ 
sight if risks are to be minimized. We perhaps need to 
have more adequate investigation of the accidents which 
occur (not just the deaths but the total injury picture). 

In these preceding nine points, many questions have 
been posed, a few examples given and almost no answers! 
The answers are specific to each activity, therefore I am 
going to suggest a way to develop the answers. 

THE RISK AROUND ADVENTURE 

This is an exercise in developing specifics of preparation. 
(SEE DIAGRAM) 

The diagram should be on two separate sheets of paper 
with the centre circle fastened on top of the larger circle. 
The outer circle can then be rotated around the inner circle. 

The central circle identifies the various factors in prepar¬ 
ing for adventurous activities. The outer circle is in nine 
segments: Segment 1 describes what everyone strives to 
attain, a physically, mentally and socially positive experi¬ 
ence. Segments 2 to 9 list the various things that could go 
wrong, with Segment 2 being the least severe physical prob¬ 
lem which might arise, one requiring basic first aid. To each 
physical problem the related mental consequence (M) for 
the injured individual is listed and the social effect (S) 
indicates how the others in the group might react. 

To use the chart, anticipate each problem that might 
arise and determine in what segment of the outer circle the 
problem fits. Note the mental consequences upon the in¬ 
jured individual and the effects on the group shown in the 
social effect segment. 

Now spin the wheel around each facet of the inner 
circle; these are the 9 factors in preparation for adventurous 
activities. Determine for each of the 9 factors as you rotate 
the outer circle, how you would prepare before for such an 
emergency in each category. 

For example, a group is on a canoe trip forty miles from 
the nearest civilization. One of the five canoes upsets in 
swift water and a student fractures his ankle while wading 


1 L.L. Whyte; The Next Development of Man 


6 



to shore pulling the capsized canoe. The fracture is obviously 
severe. 

This is an example of a major physical injury and one 
should anticipate that the injured student will experience 
shock. It is not unusual to expect that the other students 
will display some confusion and lack of direction amongst 
themselves in knowing what to do in view of this major 
injury to one of their number. 

As one compares Segment 5 against each of the factors 
in the inner circle, list the ways preparation should have 
been made for this emergency. What rules could have been 
given to avoid such an occurrence? Perhaps the swift water 
was too demanding compared with canoeing skills of the 
students, and the leader should have insisted the group por¬ 
tage that section of the river. Though students should have 
been medically checked, any unusual medical investigation 
can be checked off in this case, unless the student was pre¬ 
disposed to fractures! The equipment and facilities prepara¬ 
tion perhaps should have been done more carefully and 
would have shown the current was too swift at that point. 
Communication preparation could have resolved the mo¬ 
mentary lack of direction on the part of the group. Further, 
perhaps the injured student did not wish to run the river 
but wanted to walk the portage. His teacher might not have 
encouraged open dialogue to receive such a message. This 
open line communication should have been dealt with 
before the trip. 

The same type of problem resolution is followed for 
each of the remaining preparation facets. 

The chart may also be used by considering only one of 
the three; physical, mental or social. For example, eliminate 
the physical and social risks and consider a student on a solo 
camping trip. This individual experiences extreme fear and 
ultimately panics when a bear enters his shelter. Spin 
Segment 8 around the inner circle and consider all the 
aspects of preparation that can be accomplished to allow 
the student to cope with this nocturnal visitor. 

The exercise of such analyses may be an aid to Outdoor 
Educators in solid preparation guidelines to minimize risk. 
Risks perhaps are only valid when all measures are taken to 


prepare for them and to give the individual participants a 
totally positive experience. 

La question posee aux specialistes de Plein Air, “Le besoin 
d’aventure tolere quel niveau de risque?”, est ici traitee de 
fagon systematique en considerant les etapes a suivre pour 
faire une liste d’activites d’aventure et etablir les risques de 
chacune. Ensuite les etapes de preparation de I’activite sont 
considerees. Le schema “Le Risque entourant une activite 
d’aventure” est un aide pour perfectionner la preparation 
d’une activite de ce genre. Ceci peut aider les specialistes de 
Plein Air dans I’elaboration d’orientations pour diminuer 
les risques. Les risques ne sont valides que lorsque les 
mesures de securite sont prises pour y faire face et que 
chaque participant en fait une experience positive. 




the‘anytime’meal makers 


GIBBONS FOODS 

A complete range 

of food products for any meal or any snack. 

Include “CAMP RITE” rations 
in your next outing - full menu selection. 

GIBBONS FOODS LIMITED 

88 ADVANCE ROAD, TORONTO, ONTARIO M8Z 2S6 TEL. 239-1421 


7 












The Day of 
the Wolf 



by Ann Prewitt 

Director of Camp Northway 


As I struggled through the bush the thought of a wolf 
never entered my head. Why should it? I had spent half of 
my 60 summers at my beloved camp in Algonquin Park and 
had never laid eyes on one. And Algonquin Park is supposed 
to have one of the highest wolf populations in the world. 

The ice was melting in Cache Lake with water around the 
edges, but the centre was still white and unbroken although 
not safe to walk upon. It is a time just before break-up that 
I love, listening to the birds return and the woods come 
alive with sound. I have often made the effort at this time 
of year to walk in and stay a day or two in elegant aloneness. 

The going is always rough and this was no exception. 
Patches of snow and ice hid the trail and made footing 
treacherous. Every crevice was an icy rivulet to be forded. 

One time my foot slid from solid ice into two feet of 
mushy snow and I twisted and fell, landing on the pack on 
my back. I thought then of Russ Rutter, naturalist and wolf 
authority, but not in connection with wolves. I had asked 
Russ to write a piece for the Canadian Camping Magazine , 
which I then edited, on “Venturing Into the Woods Alone”. 
Although a frequent lone explorer, he replied that he had 
mixed thoughts on the subject. One reason was that an 
uncle of his had gone berry picking alone and had fallen 
and broken his leg. They didn’t find him for two years. 

I finally made it into camp, checked the buildings per¬ 
functorily for winter damage, and continued on to my cedar 
log cabin, “North End”. After unloading the pack of food, 
enough for two days, 1 made a sandwich and went down to 
the dock to eat my lunch and relax. 

It was 12:30. The sun was high and warm. The breeze 
across the icy lake was chill but refreshing after my arduous 
hike. After eating I stretched out on the runway of my 
dock as the dock itself was half under ice and water. 


Photo courtesy Ontario Ministry of Natural Resources 

Turning on one side, suddenly I saw three wolves across 
the ice near the island . . . not much more than a hundred 
yards away! My reaction was not of fear, but of complete 
surprise and thrill. (Russ Rutter had come to my camp and 
talked to the girls about wolves and had brought his tape 
recordings of their howls. He had impressed us all that there 
was no reason for humans to fear wolves.) 

The three wolves were meandering around, heads down, 
tails down, sniffing the ice. They were a buff-gray and in the 
distance looked full-coated and healthy. One appeared to 
be the leader with the other two following. 

I thought that I had to get a picture of them and rose 
quietly, stepping as silently as I could up to the cabin. Turn¬ 
ing mid-way 1 saw that they had noticed me and were staring 
at me. I grabbed the camera and was back outside in no 
time, but the wolves were turning away and going back. I 
was sorry that 1 hadn’t watched them a little longer. 

As they were wandering off I gave forth a long regretful 
wolf-howl. They all stopped in their tracks and stared at me 
for at least a long half-minute. Then they turned and loped 
off around Echo Island. 

I sat on my front porch and marvelled at my first sight 
of wild wolves. Very soon I saw them again as they rounded 
the far side of the island, crossed Hilliard’s Bay, and dis¬ 
appeared into the pine hills beyond. 

Sitting there still transfixed, a few minutes later a fourth 
wolf appeared. He came from the direction of the old rail¬ 
road trestle as the others must have. The wolf sniffed 
around the tracks of the first three and discovered that they 
had changed direction. As he turned back to go around the 
far side of the island I gave him a wolf-howl salute. He, too, 
stopped dead and stared at me for a rigid long time. Then 
he turned and ran. I soon saw him again as he rounded the 


8 


far side of the island and crossed the ice of Hilliard’s Bay. 
He (or she) must have been travelling about a quarter of a 
mile behind the first three, and I wondered if this might be 
a hunting pattern. 

In the afternoon I busied myself cleaning the cabin to 
get it ready for the summer, but every few minutes my eyes 
scanned the ice. More than an hour later, at about 2 o’clock, 
with the sun still high, I looked out and saw a fifth wolf! 
He was sniffing around between Echo Island and the North¬ 
way mainland, sometimes heading straight for me. With 
head and tail down he seemed to nose out an understanding 
that the first four wolves had changed direction, but he 
continued on instead of turning back. Camera in hand I 
stepped out the porch door and waited. 

His manner was the same as the others, to run a few 
paces, sniff here and there, then run again. Just a slow- 
seeming run, a pace, but covering a remarkable amount of 
distance effortlessly. 

I was still unnoticed as he passed my cabin, not 100 feet 
offshore. When he was closest 1 greeted him with two short 
barks and a howl. He froze and stared at me, ears sharp up, 
unafraid, yet alertly cautious. I took two snaps of him, 
taking my time, while he studied me. Then he turned and 
glided off unhurriedly. He headed for the mouth of the 
Upper Madawaska River where it empties into Cache Lake. 
But before he reached the river he cut left and entered the 
woods, travelling then in the same direction that the others 
had headed. I judged their destination to be some point on 
the south side of that stretch of the Madawaska. Maybe 
they had a den there, or a kill where they were returning 
to feed. 

The day of the wolves was not yet over and within an 
hour, around 3 o’clock, I saw the first four wolves come out 
of the bush where they had entered and recross Hilliard’s 
Bay. Instead of coming down the far side of Echo Island, 
they continued across Cache Lake and entered the woods 
just east of the Head Lake portage. If the fifth wolf followed 
them, as I think he did, I missed seeing him. This is entirely 
possible because, although I kept an off-and-on-again watch 
of the lake, it would have been easy to miss one fast wolf 
crossing the ice a half a mile away. 

As night came on I made my supper on the wood stove 
and then turned in early. I was more exhausted than I 
thought from the rugged hike and the excitement of the day. 

Then, still in the early night, it happened! (8:30 when I 
looked at my watch right afterwards.) I was jarred awake 
by sudden loud howling and barking . . . right outside my 
window! I was rigid with the wildness of the sounds that 
surrounded me and pierced my senses. 

When the wolves stopped I shot out of bed and cau¬ 
tiously opened my front door. It wouldn’t have surprised 
me if they had been on my front porch. Then I saw them, 
dark blobs on the white ice, meandering away from the 
cabin in the direction of the river. In the absolute silence I 
stepped out on the front porch and said thank-you for the 
rare soul-searing serenade with as long and as realistic a 
howl as 1 could bring forth. 

The dark figures on the ice stopped suddenly still as they 
had during the day. Then, as if on signal, they slid close 
together in a black knot. Immediately, the silence was filled 
with a fierce disjunctive blend of howls, barks, yips, a deep 
growl, and more howls high and low ... all sounds free and 
independent of each other but related in a wild, unrestrained, 
impromptu chorus. 


When it ended I wanted to applaud and shout, “Bravo!”, 
“Encore!”, but it would not have been fitting. The ritual 
had its own ending in the way of the wolves. The dark 
gathering broke apart and the wolves dissolved noiselessly 
into the night. I, too, went quietly back to bed. 

The next morning in the early shadowless dawn I sat bolt 
upright in bed with the sound of one sharp, deep bark in my 
ears. Then I ran from window to window but could see 
nothing moving outside. What had that meant? An order to 
the pack? Or, was it a hail to me in passing? 

I watched and waited all day, but my wolves never 
appeared again. The only thing to be seen was a long jagged 
vee of Canada geese honking and quacking low overhead. 

Cet article raconte I’experience d’un directeur de camp 
dans le Parc Algonquin un peu avant la fonte des neiges. Le 
titre et la photo parlent par eux-memes! “Le Jour des 
Loups” . . . c’est-a-dire le spectacle de cinq loups leur 
echange de saluts, hurlements . . . une aventure fantastique. 


Camp Quin-Mo-Lac 

THE UNITED CHURCH OF CANADA 

A Christian Camping experience for all ages. 
Share your summer as a volunteer leader or 
counsellor. 

Write: CAMP QUIN-MO-LAC 
R.R. #1, TWEED, ONT. 

KOK 3J0 


Camp Chief Hector 

"In the evening shadow of the Rockies" 

OPERATED BY THE CALGARY YMCA 
for boys and girls 8 to 18 

HI KING, CLIMBING, CANOEING, TRAILRIDING 

For information write: CALGARY YMCA 
332 6th AVE. S.W. 
CALGARY 


Guelph Kiwanis Camp Belwood 


Ontario Association for the Mentally Retarded 


Summer A ddress Win ter A ddress 

R.R. #1 Belwood, Ont. 87 Church St., Acton, Ont. 


9 





The Business of Camping 

AQUATICS, WATER SAFETY & WATERCRAFT 

—by Doug Dent 

Past Director , Camp Wabanaki 

Invariably, camps are so located that swimming and boating — water-oriented acti¬ 
vities - play anywhere from a minor to a very major role at the camps concerned. 

National Organizations dealing with water instruction, safety and enjoyment 
are, therefore, invariably represented. The Royal Life Saving Society, Red Cross 
and YMCA all provide swimming standards, aquatic training levels, and safety pro¬ 
grams; and these are available to all Canadian Camping Association Camps for the 
teaching, development and enjoyment of their campers. 

The Red Cross and YMCA are basically involved in swimming and water safety 
instruction, and the RLSS, in lifesaving programs. The three organizations are 
working closely together and the intent is to avoid confusion in the public’s mind 
by providing a cohesive, well developed national aquatic program^ eventually. 
Standardization is the objective and the co-operation envisaged to date is proving 
results. We will not deal with the advanced levels - instructors to specialty 
awards — but rather with the levels where the major percentage of campers could 
be involved. 

First of all, the YMCA lifesaving program was revamped, and in its place the 
RLSS program (Bronze Medallion and upwards) has been adopted. The swimming, 
beginner and intermediate levels, of the RC and YMCA are now equivalent. The 
RLSS has dropped its former beginning lifesaving levels (Elementary and Inter¬ 
mediate) as lead-up to the Bronze and replaced them with Lifesaving Levels I, II, 
and III. The chart below is set up to compare equivalents as well as progression 
steps with one program or involving all three. 


Y.M.C.A. 

RED CROSS 

R.L.S.S. 

Pre-Beginner 

Pre Beginner 


Beginner 

Beginner 


Star I 

Junior 

Life Saving I 


Survival 


Star II 



Star III 

Intermediate 

Life Saving II 

Star IV 



Star V 

Senior 

Life Saving III 

Star VI 



Masters 



(Bronze) 


Bronze 

(Bronze Cross) 


Bronze Cross 

Assistant Instructor 

Leaders 


(Award of Merit) 


Award of Merit 


Each program in its own right is a progression. With respect to the YMCA and 
RC columns, connecting lines indicate those levels are equivalent. In the YMCA, 
Stars II and IV involve such specifics as synchronized and diving skills respectively, 
and Star VI gets into the leadership concept and is a lead-up then to Masters, the 
first leadership level. Within Red Cross, progression follows through as well with 
its own pre-levels. Normally, after Senior Red Cross, one goes to the Bronze RLSS 
and then Leaders. With respect to RLSS, the Life Saving I, II, III noted adjacent to 
the other program levels infer they can be taken once the others have been attained 
(e.g., a person with his Star I or Junior RC could take his Life Saving I). 

Outside of the noted vertical and cross progression of the chart, the only other 
prerequisites that would come into play, basically, are the following: 

Senior RC - 12 years of age minimum 
Bronze Medallion - 14 years 
Bronze Cross — 14 years 
R.C. Leaders — 15 years 
Assistant Instructors (Y) — 15 years 
Award of Merit — 15 years 

Also available to camps, as well as the general public, on a national scale is the 
Red Cross Smallcraft Program. It covers canoeing, rowboating and power boating- 


ROYAL LIFE SAVING SOCIETY 
CANADA 



Safety and fun 
on camp waterfronts 
are concerns of every 
Camp Director. 

See the latest 
life saving equipment 
in the R LSSC 
illustrated catalogue. 

Rescue cans, paddleboards, 
first aid kits, aquatic signs, 
resuscitators, spineboards 
are just some of the items. 

All products listed have been 
tested and evaluated by RLSSC 
lifeguards, doctors and aquatic 
supervisors and are guaranteed 
for one full year under 
normal usage. 

Send for your free catalogue 
and price list by returning 
the form below: 


Name or Organization 


Street 


City 


Prov. Postal Code 


10 













a basic progression program, a lead-up to more advanced 
watercraft levels. In canoeing, there are two levels offered; 
in rowboating, three; and in power craft, one. All are set up 
to cover basic safety, manoeuvring, control and understand¬ 
ing re: the craft, the water and one’s safety for himself and 
others. The YMCA has adopted the power craft and row- 
boating levels at this writing. The program has the backing 
of such organizations as the Canadian Boating Federation, 
the Canadian Power Squadron, the Canadian Yachting 
Association, which has adopted the power craft level as a 
basic introduction to boat safety in its programs, and the 
total support of Recreation Canada. 

For further information, the National Headquarters are 
noted although each organization has local offices through¬ 
out the country. 


Camp GayVenture 

HALIBURTON, ONTARIO 


A PRIVATE CAMP FOR GIRLS, 7-15 YEARS 


The Canadian Red Cross 
Mr. Al Thiessen 

National Director of Water Safety Services 
95 Wellesley Street East 
Toronto, Ontario M4Y 1H6 
The Royal Life Saving Society of Canada 
Miss Jocelyn Palm 
Executive Director 
550 Church Street 
Toronto, Ontario M4Y 2E1 
National Council, Y.M.C.A. 

Mr. Donald McCuaig 

Director of Physical Education Projects 

2160 Yonge Street 

Toronto, Ontario M4S 2A9 


Ontario Pioneer Camps 

Adventure camping with an emphasis on 
Christian living. 

Ages 7-17, July and August 

Outdoor Education and Weekend programs, 
September to June 

745 Mt. Pleasant Road 

Toronto, Ont. M4S2N5 (416) 487-3431 


— Jilt jffllemoriam — 

A TRIBUTE TO FRANK JENNINGS 


The camping scene in 
Canada lost a valued 
friend when Frank 
Jennings died in Sep¬ 
tember. 

Frank’s enthusiasm 
and energy, his ability 
and willingness to 
tackle anything or any¬ 
one to promote good 
camping inspired us all. 

His career was mark¬ 
ed with success among 
young people across 
Canada. He was com¬ 
missioned as a Salva¬ 
tion Army Officer in 1944 and served as a Youth Officer 
in Corner Brook, where his impact on youth in the 
Scouting world is felt to this day. 

Married to Eva Lundrigan in 1954, he served with the 
Salvation Army in Youth Administrative positions in 
Saskatchewan, Manitoba, and latterly as the Salvation 
Army Sub-Director for Canada. 

Due to ill health, he retired from the Salvation Army 
in 1967. Returning to Corner Brook he soon became 


active in local organizations one of which was the New¬ 
foundland & Labrador Camping Association. He con¬ 
tinued to be a vital force in the NLCA until his death. 

As Standards Chairman, he was instrumental in the 
publication of a Camp Standards Book for Newfound¬ 
land. When he became President, the NLCA took on a 
new perspective. He had people from all walks of life 
joining our Association; a regular Newsletter was pub¬ 
lished, the Camp Visitation and Accreditation program 
was initiated, the Newfoundland Camp Directory was 
published for the first time and the Constitution was 
revised. 

As Provincial Representative to the Canadian Camp¬ 
ing Association, Frank opened up new horizons for the 
NLCA. We became very much aware of camping in other 
parts of Canada. Our members are now attending work¬ 
shops and conferences and coming back refreshed and 
enthusiastic. 

Frank was responsible for bringing the CCA to 
Newfoundland last May for their Annual Meeting. The 
Canadian Camping Association presented Frank with 
their Award of Merit in recognition of his contribution 
to camping. 

Barbara Taylor 



11 













Children and the 
Outdoors 

—by John Pratt 

Director, 

Durham Region Board of Education's 
Outdoor Education Program, 
Camp Samac 


THE ADVENTURE TRAIL 


Many camps and outdoor centres today have, or are planning to 
have, an adventure trail. What is an adventure trail? It is an obstacle 
course or a combination of an obstacle course and nature trail. A 
nature sign may be placed between each physical fitness station. 
Adventure trails are very common in some Western European 
countries. 

What is the purpose of an adventure trail? It is built principally 
to promote physical fitness and recreation in the outdoors. Those 
combined with a nature trail are to help promote an understanding 
of our natural surroundings as well. The adventure trail assists in 
developing specific skills, greater flexibility, co-ordination, balance, 
mental and physical alertness, self-confidence, and the ability to 
follow directions. Most important is the fact that on some pieces of 
apparatus, such as the parallel bars, people can use their imaginations 
to perform a variety of feats. This opportunity to be creative adds a 
great deal of interest and challenge. 

Is there any danger involved? If it is securely built according to 
tested designs and used under competent supervision, chances of 
accident are just about nil. Instructors should be aware of any 
physical disabilities of their students before the course is begun and 
so make allowances. The only danger to physically-fit youngsters 
comes if the equipment is allowed to fall into disrepair or if they are 
permitted to push or pull one another in unsupervised situations. 

Competent supervision is necessary to guide younger students to 
realize their capabilities. Such simple modifications as lending a help¬ 
ing hand can enable even pre-school age or handicapped children to 
achieve success at many of the stations. 

Can any competitions be carried on safely? There can be com¬ 
petitions between individuals or groups based upon successfully 
completing the challenge of an obstacle or obstacles rather than on 
speed. Definite problems can be presented at each station or students 
can use their imaginations to see how many ways in which they can 
safely use each piece of apparatus. 

Remember that students of any age must have fun doing the 
course even if the main object is physical fitness. They must want to 
do the course and enjoy it. Their enjoyment will provide more than 
ample reward for your efforts. 


CONSTRUCTION 

Materials which I acquired free-of-charge were: 


cedar poles 

old telephone poles with cross-pieces 
used tires 

Materials which I had to buy included: 

5/8 inch steel rods, threaded 
steel strapping and screws 
steel wire 
plywood for signs 

Special Note: It is advisable to have the use of a chain-saw and tractor 
to cut the poles and move them around. 


tractor tires 

three 36-inch concrete tiles 
a ladder 

paint 

creosote 

sand 


12 


The following course with the necessary apparatus and 
skills outlined has proven to be very successful. It is worthy 
of note that many schools are beginning to construct play¬ 
ground apparatus of this nature. 

Signs which are used in many European stations should 
appear at each station to explain the course. Shown in the 
following illustrations, these signs, 3/4-inch plywood, 12" x 
16", are made by stencils, black figuring on white. Common 
sense is the real guide as to the number of times an exercise 
should be done but a suggested guide appears on each 
sign ... on the left would be the suggested number for a 


family member, on the right the number an athlete might 
do BUT it is stressed that the guide MUST be used at one’s 
own discretion. 

To interest younger children who find some of the 
apparatus work beyond their ability, position tractor tires 
at the end of the course. Youngsters have a hilarious time 
climbing over and inside such huge obstacles! 

II est question ici d’un “sentier de I’aventure” qui peut etre 
une piste semee d’obstacles ou un melange: sentier de 
nature et serie d’obstacles. On y voit des plans et Ton 
discute leur utilisation. 


1 


4 



#1 — Exercise Station 
Stride Jumps 


JUMP ON AND OFF 



5 



LEGS STRAIGHT 
SWING OVER LOG 




4X 8X 


#2 — Apparatus Station 

The horizontal ladder is sus¬ 
pended by U-bolts from four 
cross-pieces of old telephone 
poles. The cross-pieces are 
fastened by 5/8 inch bolts 
to eight upright posts from 
old telephone poles. 


#3 — Apparatus Station 

A single sloping bar, made 
of sturdy cedar, is held onto 
three uprights by steel strap¬ 
ping. (It and the ladder are 
sloping to allow for different 
heights of people using it.) 



WALK ALONG LOG 

A 

IX 3X 


#4 — Apparatus Station 

Three sections of a telephone 
pole rise 14, 18 and 22 inches 
from the ground. 


#5 — Exercise Station 
Swing arms sideways 


#6 — Apparatus Station 

The balance beam is an old 
telephone pole set into two 
notched sections of a tele¬ 
phone pole, so it can't roll. 











7 


11 



#7 — Apparatus Station 

The "frog or bunny hop" 
apparatus consists of four 
large pieces of cedar pole 
bolted onto two longerpieces 
of cedar. The cross-pieces 
are about 16 inches apart. 


#8 — Apparatus Station 

The "push-up" apparatus has 
an eight-foot section of tele¬ 
phone pole, with one-quarter 
removed by a chain-saw to 
give a foot-brace. A flat cedar 
angled to allow for longer or 
shorter people, is the hand 
rest. 


#9 — Exercise Station 
Running on the spot 


#10 — Apparatus Station 

Position three 36-inch well 
tiles end to end making cer¬ 
tain they are slightly sunk 
into the ground to prevent 
injury. 






#11 — Apparatus Station 

The log, a 12-foot cedar, is 
securely fastened to a stake 
at each end by steel strap¬ 
ping. 


#12 — Apparatus Station 

Use three upright telephone 
pole sections with one piece 
secured across the top. The 
ring swings are secured by 
sturdy chains of different 
lengths (for taller or shorter 
persons) and suspended from 
the top. 


#13 — Apparatus Station 

Ten tires are wired, in pairs, 
to stakes driven into the 
ground. 


#14 — Apparatus Station 

The vertical ladder is made 
of telephone pole cross¬ 
pieces, bolted to two sturdy 
cedars. The four cross-pieces, 
used as rungs, are about six¬ 
teen inches apart and about 
four feet long. 


14 
































15 



#15 — Exercise Station 
Broad Jump 


16 


CLIMB OVER 
BRIDGE 


► 

/ 

T 




#16 — Apparatus Station 

The bridge is made of large 
cedars. Two pieces, at an 
angle of 45°, flattened on 
top, 16 inches apart, on 
each side, support sturdy 
two-foot steps which are 
securely bolted in place. Two 
sturdy uprights hold the 
structure erect. 


N.B.: ALL POLES ARE ANCHORED SECURELY FOUR FEET IN THE GROUND. ALSO, A LOT OF THE APPARATUS 
IS SURROUNDED BY SAND TO PREVENT INJURY. 










d * 1 


— open style community 
— wide age range 


— option oriented programs 


FORT CHRISTOPHER 
N. Sask. 


KAMP KATEPWA 
S. Sask. 


Baptist Union of W. Canada 
Sponsored by: Saskatchewan Churches 

401 - 4th Ave. N., Saskatoon, Sask. 


Y CAMP WABANAKI 

LAKE VERNON, HUNTSVILLE, ONTARIO 


6-16 years 


KITCHENER-WATERLOO YMCA 



J. ELL WOOD LUDWIG, PRESIDENT 

4509 Tacoma Blvd. 

Okemos, Michigan 48864 
Phone: 517/349-4435 


Wood 

BLIND RIVER 

Ontario 

Canada 


CO-ED Age 6-17 

Dry, Warm Climate . . Experienced Staff . . All Sports . . . 

Aquatics . . Water Skiing . . . Skin and Scuba . 

Canoe Trips . . Horseback Riding . . . Dramatics . . Crafts. 


Camp Potlatch 

BOYS' & GIRLS' CLUBS 
OF GREATER VANCOUVER 

WILDERNESS SURVIVAL CAMPING 
BASED ON AN INDIAN THEME 


Y CAMP HOWDY 

VANCOUVER 

SUMMER FUN AND CAMPING ADVENTURE 
ON BEAUTIFUL INDIAN ARM OF BURRARD INLET 

BOVS AND GIRLS 7-13 YEARS 

61 37 CAMBIE ST. 

VANCOUVER. B.C. PAUL DAMPIER, DIR. 

V5Z 3B2 TEL. 324-2261 



CAMP 

OTTERDALE 

Ottawa-Kingston 

Area 


Contact: 

Mr. & Mrs. C.F. Harrison 
25 Hilts Drive 
Stoney Creek, Ontario 
L8G 3H5 
416-662-4726 


15 





























CEREAL-TOPPED TOMATO HALVES 

Cut firm tomatoes in half. Scoop out a little of the pulp and fill 
with corn flakes or rice krispies; well season with salt, pepper, 
onion flakes and melted margarine. Place each on a square of 
foil. Store overnight in refrigerator. Seal tightly and place over 
hot fire and cook 10 minutes. 


SAUSAGE-APPLE PATTIES 

Form sausages into patties. Top with apple slice. Sprinkle apple 
slice with sugar and cinnamon. Wrap in foil and cook on grill 
18-20 minutes, turning occasionally. 


TOPSY TURVEY MEAT PIE 

1 lb. ground beef 

1 cup sliced onions 
(onion soup, dehydrated) 

2 tblsp. lard 
1 tsp. salt 

Vi tsp. pepper 
1 can tomato soup 
(bravo sauce) 

1 bannock 

Add meat to onion which has been 
browned in lard. Cook until crumbly 
but not hard. Add seasoning and 
tomato soup and heat. Pour into bak¬ 
ing dish and cover with biscuit mix, 
and cook before a hot fire until bis¬ 
cuits are done, about 20 minutes. 

STEW AND DUMPLINGS 

2 cans roast beef and gravy 
4 fresh carrots 

1 pkg. beef noddle soup 
1 pkg. biscuit mix 

Chop carrots and onions and boil in 
salted water until carrots are tender. 
Drain. Add roast beef and gravy and 
soup with about 1 cup of water. Bring 
to a boil. Make biscuit mix with a little 
less water than is specified so it is stiff. 
Place dough on top of stew, COVER, 
and boil until biscuits are cooked. 

CHEESE BREAD 

3% cups prepared biscuit mix 
% cup grated cheese (sharp) 

1 egg, beaten 
Vh cups milk 

Blend ingredients and heat for Vi min¬ 
ute. Pour into a greased pan or alumi¬ 
num foil dish and bake for about 1 
hour in moderate heat in a reflector 
oven. 


16 


CHOPPED CHICKEN PATTIES 

Combine: 

V/i cups chopped chicken or turkey 
(cooked) 

1 tsp. Worcestershire Sauce 
Vi cup bread crumbs 

2 eggs, beaten 

1 tblsp. melted margarine 
Salt and pepper to taste 

Form into patties and wrap in foil. 
Place on grill and cook 15 minutes. 

COWBOY CASSEROLE 

Combine: 

2 cans pork and beans 
Zi cup minced onion 

Vi cup grated sharp cheese 
2 tblsp. chili powder 
2 tblsp. Worcestershire Sauce 
2 tblsp. dark molasses 
1 tblsp. vinegar 

Turn into casserole. Top with 4 slices 
of bacon, cooked and crumbled. Place 
casserole at back of grill over coals. 
Fleat slowly until bubbly and piping 
hot, about 1 hour. Serve with brown 
bread, wrapped in foil and heated on 
grill. 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE 

Serve pieces of cake (cooked in a re¬ 
flector oven) with chocolate sauce 
poured over them. 

Vi cup instant cocoa mix 
Vi cup sugar 
Vi cup evaporated milk 
Combine above and bring/V/sf to a boil, 
stirring constantly. This sauce can be 
made with condensed milk by leaving 
out the sugar. Combine Vi cup cocoa 
and 1 cup sweetened condensed milk 
and bring it just to a boil, stirring 
constantly. 



The empty paper towel or wax paper 
cardboard cylinder makes a dandy 
mailer for newspapers or other printed 
articles you’d rather not bend or fold. 
Addresses can be written right on the 
side of the tube. 


Here are some interesting substitutions 
you can rely on: 

if a recipe calls for: you may substitute: 

1 (14-oz.) can whole 1 (7!4-oz.) can tomato 
tomatoes sauce mixed with 

%-cup water 

1 (10-oz.) can con- 1 (7'A-oz.) can tomato 
densed tomato soup sauce mixed with 
14-cup water 

1 (14-oz.) can 1 (5%-oz.) can tomato 

tomato sauce paste mixed with 

1-cup water 


Peanut butter serves as more than an 
after school snack. When kids come 
home with gum in their hair or on 
clothes, try rubbing a little peanut 
butter in their hair or over the stained 
area on their clothing. Let it sit briefly 
then wipe off. Alcohol is good for 
removing gum from the skin. 


Leftover club soda is excellent for 
wiping off counters, refrigerators, and 
laminated plastic tops on tables. It 
cleans and polishes in one application 
and the surfaces thus cleaned have a 
satiny feeling. 


Solvent used for cleaning paint brushes 
can be salvaged and re-used many times 
simply by pouring it into a separate 
container and letting it settle for a day 
or two. The clear solvent can then be 
poured back for re-use. 


Ordinary cigarette lighter fluid is a 
good agent for cleaning typewriter 
keys. For this purpose use it sparingly 
with a typecleaning brush or an old 
toothbrush. 


Stale, hard raisins can be reclaimed by 
putting them inside a strainer, setting 
the strainer with a cover on it over a 
pot of boiling water for about 15 min¬ 
utes. This usually does a good freshen¬ 
ing job. 


cont 'd on page 26 












Archery 


is a, Winner 


—by Larry R. Johnston 


What is there about a midway or a penny arcade that 
seems to exert an overpowering fascination for young 
people? Toss the ball through the loop, toss the ring around 
the bottle, drop the ball through the hole, burst the balloon 
with the dart, knock the Wrigley’s gum off the shelf with a 
tiny cork from the pop-gun. 

‘‘Step right up, little lady.” 

“She shoots; she scores!” 

“Another winner, folks, and the little lady gets the prize.” 

No doubt a psychologist could rattle off an impressive 
list of reasons which would justify why the “little lady” 
shelled out fifty cents to put her skill to the test and in fact, 
bet the barker that she could achieve success. The whys and 
wherefores, however, are of little consequence if we can 
simply appreciate our own observations. People like to play 
games of skill. People like to be winners. People like to 
exhibit their skills and talents. Not all people fall into the 
mould I’m pouring, but a sufficient number to warrant 
consideration. 

I moved from the penny arcade to archery when 1 was 
so young that to hold my bow in a vertical position meant 
that it was touching the ground. It was a one-piece wooden 
bow of the Robin Hood design and with it I had one arrow. 
With sufficient shooting, l could guarantee a bullseye; it 
might take a few hours, but it could be done. 

By the time I reached Connaught Range in Ottawa for 
the National Boy Scout Jamboree, I knew something about 
stance, draw, windage, elevation and generally more than 
the other guys who didn't want to enter the national com¬ 
petition in the first place. 

As I recall, there were several hundred competitors 
shooting at close range initially and then moving back. That 
thinned the ranks. The equipment was supplied and as such, 
was unfamiliar to most and it’s rather difficult discovering 
what your bow can do when the judge is concerned only 
with what you can do. 

There were eleven competitors left when I was elimin¬ 
ated, but by that time the crowd had thinned so that I 
could see the shooter of all those arrows that kept arching 
through the air, plunking down on the target with consistent 
form. This guy was beautiful. He was using a re-curve fibre- 
glas-and-wood bow, and extra long arrows. He wore finger 



tabs, a wrist guard and a quiver which hung from his belt. 
All he needed was a green cap with a feather in it and he 
could rescue Maid Marian any day. 

It seems, back in those good ol’ days, that archery tackle 
was terribly expensive and not too terrific. Sure you could 
buy an arrow for 25tf,but chances are it would break during 
the first session. The new aluminum shafts, not to mention 
the fabulous fibreglas type, do not break as easily and are 
therefore more economical in the long run. The wooden 
long-bow has become somewhat antiquated what with the 
advent of the laminated wood and fibreglas beauties of the 
day. The inexpensive fibreglas models can now be churned 
out rapidly and with greater quality control than the old 
wooden bows and are thus comparatively inexpensive. 

While hitting a target can give you a thrill, there is a great 
deal more to the archery game. The primary lesson is 
responsibility. When I was a boy, I often shared the use of 
my arrow with my buddy from down the street. Out in the 
orchard behind my house we spent considerable time shoot¬ 
ing my arrow back and forth “to” each other. Dumb? You 
bet, but it was just plain ignorance. A simple training session 
by a responsible (not necessarily proficient) instructor 
would have been most appropriate. 

Ever wonder why there are about twenty times as many 
fatal water-related accidents as there are fatal gun-related 
accidents? Respect. All people respect guns as dangerous 
things although water is just water. 

Fortunately, however, respect for the gun has overflowed 
to the bow and the accident rate in Canada is just about nil. 

cont’d on page 21 


17 




The Wilderness 

Steam Bath 

by Mors Kochanski 

Wilderness Living Skills Instructor 


The wilderness steam bath or sweat lodge, as used by the 
North American Plains Indians, is generally little known 
among outdoor enthusiasts. The author was introduced to 
the steam bath by Tom Roycraft (Civilian Survival Instruc¬ 
tor, Survival Training School, Department of National 
Defence) about five years ago and since then, in the course 
of instructing wilderness living skills, he has built two or 
three hundred steam baths, as many as seven in a week and 
two in one day. Rarely is an individual not enthused if 
properly introduced to the steam bath. If correctly done, it 
adds zest to every wilderness activity. 

Suitability to Summer Camps: The steam bath is suited to 
summer camps for a number of reasons: 

a) It affords an effective and efficient means of bathing 
with limited facilities. Without showers or bath tubs, 
and in cold weather, large groups of campers can be 
kept clean. 

b) The nature of steam bathing is such that most young 
people may want to steam bath at least once a day. 

c) The steam bath can be a great social event. If planned 
as the last activity of the evening, it provides a reason 
for everyone to socialize around the fire and heat the 
rocks (at a safe distance). 

Suitability to Survival Situations: The steam bath has an 
important place in survival instruction for the following 
reasons: 

a) It is useful in accelerating acclimatization to cold. 

b) It provides an effective and efficient means of bathing 
without soap or towels and with minimal quantities 
of water. 

c) It counteracts mental depression which is common in 
survival situations. 

d) It may be used in crossing ice cold streams. 

e) It will usually stop a headache. 

0 It is a means for partially relieving fatigue and re¬ 
vitalizing sore muscles. 

g) If a cold is difficult to break, or as with congested 
lungs or sinuses, the steam bath may help in alleviating 
these conditions. 

Significance to the Indian Religion: The sweat lodge erec¬ 
tion and operation were generally done according to strict 
ritual. It had to be pitch-dark inside, except for the glowing 
rocks. In this form it represented everything that was 
important to the Indian people. The one activity incorpor¬ 
ated fire, water, earth, heat, cold and air. To some, the dark 
lodge represented the primeval womb of mother earth from 
which one could be reborn. 

The actual steam bathing itself may be deemed some¬ 
what of an ordeal but the feeling afterwards is what makes 
it all worth while. The feelings of mind and body resulting 


from a wilderness steam bath almost defy description. It 
may be best to say that one begins to realize, through 
experiencing it, why the steam bath is such an important 
part of the Indian’s religion. 

Choice of Site and Materials and Tools Required 

1 . The Site: The site must provide a safe place for the fire 
used in heating the rocks and also have access to an adequate 
supply of rocks. The ideal choice for the fire is a gravel bar 
or sandy beach. It is advisable to have the steam bath near 
some water with a safe bottom to jump into. It is also ideal 
to have a grassy floor for the lodge that is free of mud or 
sand. 

2. Building Materials: Willow (Salix) or alder (Alnus) are 
most often .used for the sweat lodge described in this sec¬ 
tion. (The shape or style of enclosure may be of no conse¬ 
quence as long as it is steam-proof.) Ten to thirty wands are 
required, four being about six to eight feet long, the remain¬ 
der four to five feet long. A few extra wands should be 
gathered in case of breakages. A one-man lodge can be 
built of wands with butt ends the thickness of one’s little 
finger. 

3. The Cover: This is a critical point in the successful steam- 
bath. Polyethylene, canvas or parachute material can be 
used for a cover. The size of your steam bath is not dictated 
by the number steam bathing as much as by the size of the 
available covering material. If the cover is not steam proof, 
the steam bath is apt to be a failure. A hole a few inches 
across would mean it was not steam proof. 

4. Size: To determine the size of structure, you may posi¬ 
tion yourself on the ground as if steam bathing, to note 
how much ground is needed. Use this to estimate the size of 
structure to accommodate the number of people partici¬ 
pating. A circular or oval outline of the lodge of the 
required size may be scratched out on the ground. If the 
lodge is built large enough to accommodate ten adults, it is 
reaching maximum size unless there is a very experienced 


YMCA Camp Elphinstone 

Backpacking in the Coastal Mountains, 
Canoeing on magnificent fiords, ocean sailing 
and swimming, fishing for salmon — 

It's the West's great summer experience 
for boys. 

6137 CAMBIE STREET 

VANCOUVER V5Z 3B2 Tel.: 324-2261 


18 




steam bather conducting the operation. If the lodge is too 
big, it may be a disappointment as the required temperature 
may not be attained or adequately maintained. 

5. Rocks: Igneous rocks are best as they will stand heating 
many times over without cracking. Usually, you have to use 
what you can get, in which case the best rocks are those that 
are dried out. A rock that has been taken right out of the 
water may explode with the report of a shotgun when the 
water it contains turns to steam. Larger pieces of steel (such 
as the plates used under the rails of railroad tracks) are also 
very good. 

6. Tools: When operating a steam bath for large numbers of 
people, a potato fork is desirable for loading and unloading 
the rocks. Two five-gallon pails are also very handy. One is 
used as the water container inside the steam bath and the 
other for heating water for rinsing. 

Steps in Construction: 


/ 

/ 

/ 


\ 


SIZE ACCORDING TO SIZE 
OF COVER OR NUMBER OF 
PEOPLE STEAM BATHING 



'i 

/ » _ 

s' HOLE 1 1% FT DEEP 
AND 1 1% FT WIDE 


OUTLINE OF LODGE SCRATCHED ON GROUND 
WITH A LONG STICK 


Fig. 1 

a) Choose the four thickest, longest wands with all the 
branches removed except those at the tips. Push the ends 
into the ground. If the ground is hard, first punch a hole 
with a sharpened stake. 



b) Form the arch by twisting the wands around each 
other. Be careful wrapping the ends about each other 
because the wand may break. A turn per foot is adequate. 
The leafy tips help make the wands stay wound. The two 
arches, termed the main arches, are matched as closely as 
possible. The roof should be kept low to keep the heat that 
accumulates at the top as low as possible. The roof should 
be just high enough to allow the steam bathers to sit com¬ 
fortably upright. 



Fig. 3 

c) The next arch is added as shown in Figure 4. Each 
wand goes over the next main arch and under the far one. 



d) As required, more arches are added (Figure 5). 



e) Side braces may be added on each side, as shown in 
Figure 6, for further stability. 

f) The superstructure of the lodge is now complete. A 
properly built lodge could support the weight of a man. A 
hole or a pit for the hot rocks is dug opposite the entrance 
end, large enough to accommodate the number of rocks 
necessary for the steam bath (from one to three five-gallon 
pails full). It should be dug at one end, rather than in the 
centre, for safety and to make loading and unloading easier. 
The hole must be dug into mineral soil. Hot rocks in contact 
with organic material will likely produce undesirable, chok¬ 
ing smoke. If the hole is excessively wet, it will prema¬ 
turely squelch the hot rocks. 

g) Two or three wands may be arched over the hole to 
keep the cover away from the hot rocks (Figure 6); if not, 
the heat from the rocks may damage the cover. If available, 
a sheet of tin or short boards could be tied over the hot 
rocks to protect the cover, especially if it is of polyethylene, 
because the concentrated heat from the rocks is prone to 
melt holes in it. 



them down with stones. 


19 













Building the Fire for Steam Bathing - 20 to 30 People 

a) Two dry trees four to eight inches in diameter are cut 
into lengths three to four feet long. 

b) Arrange four of the largest logs as shown in Figures 7, 
8 and 9 filling the spaces with kindling and fine wood. 



4 8" IN DIAMETER 


FILL SPACE BETWEEN 
“LOGS WITH FIREWOOD 


BUILD A SECOND 
TIER AS SHOWN 


Fig. 7 Fig. 8 Fig. 9 

c) Lay six or eight of the smallest logs as shown to form 
a platform and carefully stack rocks to be heated on this 
platform. 

d) Pile the remaining logs teepee fashion as shown in 
Figure 12. These are important in helping the rocks to heat 
up faster and hotter. 




Fig. 10 


Fig. 11 



Fig. 12 

e) After the fire is kindled, maintain a distance of fifty 
feet from it in case any rocks explode. 

0 If the logs do not catch readily, have some wood avail¬ 
able to stuff under the platform. 

g) The rocks may be ready in 3/4 to 1-1/2 hours. 


Using a 45 Gallon Barrel to Heat the Rocks 

To save on fuel, and to provide added safety, a 45 gallon 
barrel may be made into a stove to heat the rocks. As shown 
in Figure 13, the top is cut off and an opening is cut in the 
bottom of the barrel to provide a place to light the fire, 
cause a draft and unload the heated rocks. With a thin 
gauge barrel, the cutting can be done with a sharp cold 
chisel and a hammer, or if not available, an old sharp axe. 
The barrel is emptied of previous ashes or rock fragments 
and a foot or so of kindling is laid down on the bottom. 
The remainder of the barrel is filled either by throwing in 
short pieces of wood or standing longer pieces upright in it. 
The rocks to be heated are then piled on (Figure 14) and 
the fire is lit. 



Using the Steam Bath 

As soon as the hot rocks have been loaded in the steam 
bath, no time should be lost in using it. Do not begin load¬ 
ing until everyone is ready. Immediately on loading, put 


out any embers that may have been inadvertently loaded 
with the rocks, with a cup or two of water. 

a) Sprinkle water on the rocks with a face towel, a wad 
of grass, or use a cup with which to pour it on. 

b) Maintain the heat as hot as you can stand it. The 
objective is to make it hot enough and to stay in long 
enough for the skin to turn red in blotches. Leaving prema¬ 
turely, especially in cold weather, may leave you prone to 
chilling. A very hot steam bath may have to be endured for 
at least twenty minutes so that the body may absorb 
enough heat to prevent chilling. 

c) It is advisable to exit every ten minutes for a breath 
of fresh air, a drink of water, a plunge or a roll in the snow. 
This will also allow you to endure more heat. People should 
not be allowed to exit at random as too much valuable heat 
may be lost this way. 

d) Quit when you cannot stand the heat any longer (if 
the rocks do not get cold first) or you begin to get dizzy. 

e) Jumping into water, especially when it is ice cold, or 
rolling in the snow is generally feasible, but not imperative, 
to impart a greater high. No aspect of the steam bath pro¬ 
cedure should be made compulsory. Each individual should 
be allowed to accept the various aspects of steam bathing in 
his own time. 

0 A wet facecloth, to cover the eyes and mouth, helps 
in making the steam bath more tolerable. Otherwise hold 
the face close to the floor. 

g) If alpine or balsam fir boughs (Abies lasiocarpa or A. 
balsamea) or sage leaves (Artemesia) are available, small 
quantities of these may be placed on the hot rocks to add 
to the aromatic atmosphere of the steam bath. The sage 
can be distributed about the floor of the sweat lodge and 
hung near the roof where the air is hottest. 

h) Although the best way to steam bathe is in the nude, 
mixed camping may require bathing suits. (Tight fitting 
suits can be cramping in a crowded steam bath.) 

i) The object of steam bathing is enjoyment, not torture. 
If a person is new to steam bathing, it is best to take it easy 
at first because two or three steam baths are needed to 
acclimatize and develop a real appreciation of the steam 
bath. Only after you are a veteran of four or five properly 
conducted steam baths are you fully conscious of the 
potential of the steam bath. By all means do not judge the 
steam bath on one or two sessions. 

j) The conditions in the steam bath cause you to sweat 
a great deal. The moisture in the steam bath dilutes the 
sweat considerably and there is no body odour problem 
even if you do not rinse off. In the summer, you usually 
have the opportunity to rinse off in a stream or lake. If it is 
cold, rinsing can be effectively carried out by using warm or 
hot water. Water can be easily heated in a metal container 
by dropping red hot rocks into it. (A five gallon pail of 
water can be heated from ice cold to boiling in about five 
minutes time with two red hot rocks the size of one’s head.) 
A great feeling of cleanliness is achieved when, after steam 
bathing, you immediately lather down with soap and rinse 
off with water heated in the above manner. 

k) Soaping down before steam bathing can create prob¬ 
lems as the soap tends to get into the eyes with the sweat, 
and the heat also accentuates the resulting burning sensa¬ 
tion. 

l) Right after the steam bath it is important to maintain 
a state of complete relaxation until normal body tempera¬ 
ture is regained. (At least a half hour or more.) 


20 











Safety, Hazards and Precautions 

a) Medical Problems 

i) People with heart disease and blood pressure prob¬ 
lems should seek medical advice concerning steam bath¬ 
ing. It would be the same with any serious respiratory 
problems or skin disease. 

ii) If your body temperature is elevated for any reason 
and you are in a hot sweat, you must cool off thoroughly 
before engaging in a steam bath. The exertion will have 
caused the surface blood vessels to be carrying a con¬ 
siderable volume of blood in the process of keeping the 
body temperature down. Entering a hot environment, 
especially a steam bath, is likely to cause a further trans¬ 
fer of blood to the surface. If the heart has too little 
blood left to work with properly, a heart attack results 
as if from hemorrhagic shock . . . people, middle aged or 
older, should practise extreme caution. 

iii) Children under the age of five have not as yet 
developed the ability to efficiently cope with high tem¬ 
peratures on a par with adults. Where the effect on an 
adult would be beneficial, to a child it may be severe 
dehydration, elevated body temperature and profound 
fatigue. 

iv) Some studies indicate that heat, at certain stages 
of pregnancy, can damage the fetus. 

b) Food: As the heat in the steam bath causes the blood 
to go to the skin, the digestive system is left with little 
blood to spare. Steam bathing on a full stomach may invite 
digestive upset. It is better to eat a hearty meal, once 
thoroughly rested, after steam bathing. 

c) Scalding: With the proper precautions taken, there 
should be no danger of scalding. Some sensitive individuals 
may experience reddening of the skin. With some types of 
cover, like polyethylene, condensation may drip in what 
one may describe as pinpricks of fire. This is disconcerting 
but it does no harm. If a cloth such as an old sheet is laid 
down under the polyethylene, the dripping is usually pre¬ 
vented. 

d) Dizziness: Both experienced and inexperienced steam 
bathers often become dizzy in the steam bath. This may be 
due mainly to holding one’s head near the ground for short 
periods of time. The only danger concerning dizziness occurs 
when one is near the fire and so apt to fall into it. 

e) Aggravating colds: A properly conducted steam bath, 
even in the middle of winter, is beneficial rather than detri¬ 
mental to a cold or congested sinuses. One must be cau¬ 
tioned, however, to endure considerable heat so that the 
body acquires enough heat to stave off a chill. 

f) Constricted throat: In very hot steam baths the feeling 
of a constricted throat is sometimes experienced. This goes 
away in a short while and no bad side effects have ever been 
noted. 

g) Using liquids other than water on the hot rocks: Such 
liquids as vinegar (and possibly others) may create a lethal 
atmosphere of carbon monoxide in the steam bath if poured 
on hot limestone rocks. One should be cautioned to use 
only water. 

Steambath Procedure 

1. Gather fuel and materials beforehand. 

2. Assemble and lay the fire to heat the rocks. 

3. Light fire one hour before time required. 

4. If lodge is not built, complete it (time required - 

half an hour or less) 

5. Supply lodge with water container. 


6. When rocks appear ready, call intended bathers to 
prepare. 

7. When bathers are just about ready, load hot rocks. 

8. Before sealing cover over hot rocks, squash any burning 
embers with a cup or two of water. 

9. Gradually build up heat, over a period of ten minutes, 
until you can hardly stand it. 

10. Exit for two minutes to cool off, sip water, and re-enter. 

11. Build up heat to the maximum endurance and maintain 
for ten minutes. 

12. Exit as in 10 but before re-entering put hot rocks in 
containers to heat water for rinsing.* 

13. Build up heat, endure for five minutes, systematically 
sprinkle water on rocks until unbearable. Participants 
exit at will when own limit reached. Last person to 
leave steam bath is leader next time. 

14. After cooling off in water or lake (optional), lather 
down with soap and rinse well with water. Dry off, 
preferably in front of fire. 

15. Rest for a half hour or more, or go directly to bed if 
steambathing in the evening. 

16. Eat if required. 

*NOTE: When working with large groups, it is convenient to 
have an outside “attendant” for the following: 

1. to check for steam leaks in the cover; 

2. to fetch water when required; 

3. to keep the fire going; 

4. to reload with fresh rocks, if necessary; 

5. to maintain an adequate supply of warm water for 
rinsing off. 

Comment construire un Bain Turc en pleine nature: le site, 
les materiaux et les outils necessaires, comment le construire, 
son utilisation, les mesures de securite, les precautions a 
prendre. Ces explications sont accompagnees d Ml lustrations. 

K XK A 

The Outdoorsman continued 

In terms of man-days or man-hours of recreation pro¬ 
vided by archery, especially when compared to a per unit 
cost break-down, the sport does have appeal. In addition, a 
certain amount of success can be easily achieved in a rela¬ 
tively short period of time by both girls and boys who, for 
some strange reason, like to score bullseyes. 

If a lack of personal experience deters you from offering 
archery courses at your camp, I’ve got just the solution or 
at least something which may help lead you to a solution, 
assuming you wish to find a solution in the first place. The 
Ben Pearson archery company has a whole kit prepared for 
camp operators. There are step-by-step instruction manuals, 
range diagrams, targets and just about everything even I 
could think of to get you started. Of course it’s free and 
there aren’t any strings attached. Just write: Mr. Mac 
McKinney, Ben Pearson Archery Company, 1156 Dundas 
Street East, Mississauga, Ontario. 

Cet article montre I’attrait du tir-a-l’arc comme activite de 
Plein Air tant par sa popularity que par son cout peu eleve. 
Un certain succes peut etre obtenu en un temps relative- 
ment court. 

II est possible d’obtenir gratuitementde M.Mac McKinney, 
Ben Pearson Archery Co., 1156 Dundas Street East, 
Mississauga, Ontario, des livres destruction, des plans de 
champs de tir, des cibles. 


21 






Canoeist along Churchill 


re-affirms peace and 
of Canadian Shield 

Reprinted with permission of The Leader-Post, Regina 

OTTAWA - Canoeists and writers, including such con¬ 
temporary voyageurs as Sigurd Olson and Eric Morse, have 
praised northern Saskatchewan’s Churchill River. Recent 
experiences would have me concur with their high regard 
for this rugged and singularly beautiful wilderness country. 

Peter Whitehead of Churchill River Canoe Outfitters has 
paddled and explored most of the major river systems in the 
vast midwestern northland and he had selected a stretch of 
the mighty Churchill as my introduction to Saskatchewan’s 
fabled north country. 

Having read and re-read Sig Olson’s The Lonely Land, I 
arrived in Missinipe with paddle in hand. 

Provisioned and outfitted, we took off from Otter Lake 
via Nipiwin Airways and flew up river to Black Bear Island 
Lake. This would allow a leisurely three-day trip back down 
river with plenty of time to photograph and enjoy the 
tranquility, scenery, fishing and fast water thrills encoun¬ 
tered by the old-time fur traders. 

Peter Pond and Mackenzie travelled this river as fur 
traders nearly 200 years ago on their way to the rich fur¬ 
bearing forests of the Ath country to the northwest. 

We paddled across and down Black Bear Island Lake in 
balmy summer sunshine and Peter broke into song: 

“For canoeing is our kind of pleasure 

we do it whenever we can 

the memories of trips we will treasure 

and all the rough rapids we ran.” 

Compliments of the Historic Trails Canoe Club, Regina,” 
explained Peter modestly. 

Our paddles dug deep and the only sound was the curious 
gurgle of a swift-moving Grumman canoe. The wilderness 
was ours. 

The Churchill River is a chain of lakes linked by multi- 
channelled stretches of rapids or falls. The intervening fast 
water adds excitement and a change of pace from the rou¬ 
tine of lake travel, and the choice of channels makes the 
maps and trip briefings supplied by the outfitter almost as 
important as food and equipment. Even Peter Whitehead, 
who was quite familiar with the known route, would scout 
other channels to add to his enjoyment and knowledge by 
exploring new terrain. 

We made an easy 200-yard portage, ran a frisky rapids 
then shore-cruised among a maze of islands before entering 
a rocky narrows. We pulled in for lunch. This is Canadian 
Shield country, a rugged mosaic of lakes and rivers, rock 
outcroppings and forest, long favored by seasoned voyageurs 
as perfect for canoe travel. 

The six-mile length of Trout Lake is covered off in the 
early afternoon hours of the long hot northern day. We 
photographed a giant beaver house and crossed a marshy 
bay to observe birds and other aquatic wildlife among the 

22 



high reeds. We took a short side trip up the sparkling little 
Paul River, before continuing down to make camp below 
the Rock Trout Portage. 

Our camp was a picture site on a high wooded outcrop¬ 
ping above a fast water chute. It was still too hot for serious 
work, so we alternately plunged in the river to cool off, and 
loafed in shade until the heat of the day subsided. 

After dinner, we paddled up into the fast water to do 
some walleye fishing. My score for half an hour was eight 
fish walleye, one seven-pound northern and a crusty little 
two-pound pike which I actually caught and threw back 
three times. The fact that he was identifiably scarred on his 
initial encounter didn’t deter him from belting my spinner 
and being hauled in again and again. 

Next morning, the Rock Trout Portage, Chipewyan Falls 
and Little Rock Portage were carried and a series of exciting 
rapids were run before we entered the ominous sounding 
Dead Lake. 

The name is derived from a smallpox epidemic among 
the Cree in the 18th Century and the bones of the victims 
of this decimating disease were observed by Alexander 
Mackenzie around 1780. Locally it is believed that the mass 
graveyard is on an island, but references from Sig Olson’s 
The Lonely Land would place it on a point protruding 
from the mainland. 

Regardless, we landed and explored the Island of the 
Dead which is overgrown with shoulder-high grass, with a 
ring of trees around the periphery of the island. 

A favorable wind allowed us to hoist a sail and cruise 
into the narrows of Two Lake Island where we camped for 
the night. 

A half-mile carry on a seldom used and overgrown por¬ 
tage out of Hayman Lake ended at a beautiful little bay 
with sandy beach. Here we had lunch after a refreshing swim. 

By mid-afternoon we portaged our gear, before taking a 
wild run on the aptly named (as any bow paddler will attest) 
Cold Crotch rapids. Then it was time out to photograph a 
bald eagle’s nest that Peter knew about. Two well-fledged 
youngsters could be seen gasping in the heat, while the 
parent birds soared anxiously in a holding pattern above 
the nesting area. 

We run another fast reach down into Devil Lake and 
then across to the Otter Rapid portage where we empty the 
canoe and carry over our packs and gear. 

Now for the Otter Rapids run; among Saskatchewan 
voyageurs it’s the Otter Rapids that “separates the men from 
the boys” to quote an old and chauvinistic expression. 

It’s a formidable sight, by gosh! . . . The Churchill puts 
it all together here in a fast-moving channel about 50 yards 
wide and 400 long. It’s a complete mix of class III and IV 
curls, tricky looking eddies and powerful hydraulics all 


interspersed with swift-flowing rocking-horse chop. A bridge 
spans the river here and already a cluster of fans line the 
railings to watch the fun. 

I would not normally run a big river rapids such as the 
Otter without having another craft down below, to pick up 
the pieces so to speak, but these were Peter Whitehead’s 
home waters and he knew them well. 

Peter picked his line and proceeded to call course and 
pace changes as we rocked and tossed among the big foam- 


ers. We entered and emerged unscathed from one area of 
turmoil after another with apparent ease. Then, with a 
whoop and holler, we banged through two unavoidable 
standing waves and coasted out into the bottom bay. 

We had taken scarcely two quarts of water, a run to be 
proud of. 

We dunked our hats in the Churchill and Peter declared 
me a Saskatchewan Voyageur, and that’s a title to be 
proud of! 


J. HARRY EBBS, 
a Distinguished Camper, 
is Honoured 

Left to right: Registrar Alf O. Cole, Dr. J. Harry Ebbs and 
Professor Bruce W. Hodgins 



This citation was given on the occasion of the grant of an Honorary Doctor of Law Degree to Dr. Harry Ebbs 
at the Trent University Convocation , Peterborough , Ontario , on June 6th , 1975 by Bruce W. Hodgins , 
Professor of History , Trent University , and Director of Camp Wanapitei. 


Mr. Chancellor — Harry Ebbs, a paediatrician of world 
renown, a humanitarian of deep convictions, a respected 
advocate of wilderness preservation and the organized 
camping movement, is a near-native of Peterborough. Born 
in England, he arrived here as a child in 1912 and lived for 
many years on Mark Street in Ashburnham. He attended 
King George School and the Peterborough Collegiate where 
he played football and was head boy. On the Drumlin, then 
with its famous high jump, 400 yards from this spot, he 
learned to ski. 

In 1931 he graduated in medicine from the University of 
Toronto. After further study in Canada, the United States 
and Great Britain, he joined in 1938 the staff of the Hospital 
for Sick Children in Toronto. From 1946 until 1968 he was 
that institution’s Senior Staff Physician. For many years 
Professor of Paediatrics at the University of Toronto, Harry 
Ebbs served as the Director of that University’s School of 
Physical and Health Education from 1952 until his retire¬ 
ment in 1973. 

Harry Ebbs is the author of more than 60 scientific 
papers, particularly in the fields of nutrition, child growth, 
coeliac disease, and physical recreation for mentally retarded 
children. During the latter years of the depression he con¬ 
ducted in Toronto a deeply significant nutritional study of 
expectant mothers who were economically deprived. Resul¬ 
tant new dietary programs reduced infant and maternal 
illness and death very significantly. His startling conclusions 
and recommendations were adopted by Britain’s Chief 
Medical Officer, so that, despite the hardships of war, that 
country’s infant mortality rate was reduced by fifty per 
cent. Thousands of ordinary men and women who have 
never heard of Harry Ebbs, are alive today through his 


efforts. 

Travelling thousands of miles, he also carried out, on the 
eve of the war, an exhaustive study of the nutritional and 
medical needs of the people of the far North, both Innuit 
and European. During wartime, these findings were adopted 
for use in 42 million food packages sent to Allied prisoners 
of war. Meanwhile, Harry himself served on the National 
Food and Nutrition Advisory Board and as a Captain in the 
48th Highlanders. 

Harry Ebbs is a Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians 
of Canada and of London, a past President of the Canadian 
Paediatric Society, President of the Brora Research Centre 
for Children, Founding President of the Society of Pro¬ 
fessional Camp Directors, Honorary Medical Advisor of the 
Canadian Red Cross Society, holder of a Canada Medal, and 
one of the organizers of the Duke of Edinburgh Awards in 
Canada. He has been consultant to hospitals in Malaysia, 
St. Lucia and Jamaica. 

Mr. Chancellor, over fifty years ago, through the efforts 
of Alex Edmison, now a distinguished member of our Board 
of Governors, young Harry became a counsellor and canoe 
instructor at the Taylor Statten Camps in Algonquin. There 
he fell in love with Adele or “Couchie”, the Director’s 
daughter, whom he married. Since 1938 he has been the 
Chief Medical Advisor for these camps, while his wife has 
directed Taylor Statten’s Camp Wapomeo. Harry is a scholar 
with an unassailable reputation. But he has told me that in 
his heart and his sentiment, he is still the young lad from 
Ashburnham who revels in the haunts of Little Lake, the 
Otonabee and Algonquin Park. 

Mr. Chancellor — On behalf of the Senate of Trent 
University, it is my privilege to present to you J. Harry Ebbs. 

23 







lunch. 

on the Sty ^ail 

by F.M. Van Wagner 

Director, Camp Nominingue 1925-1967 

Many campers who enjoy the woods and out-of-doors 
during the warmer seasons may not have discovered that 
their favourite trails can be equally enjoyable when travelled 
on skis. 

Those who have not kindled a fire on the snow and 
eaten lunch in the open during the winter may imagine that 
it would prove difficult and uncomfortable. Having enjoyed 
this experience some hundreds of times, along Laurentian 
ski trails, during the past forty winters, I can assure anyone 
who is interested that it is both easy and most enjoyable. 

These suggestions may prove helpful for anyone not 
experienced in winter camping. . . 

1) The choice of a desirable site for lunch is important. 
A sheltered sunny location with sufficient dry wood handy 
is ideal. 

2) Having chosen the site, gather all the wood that will 
be required, before removing skis. Use only dry wood; 
maple is best but other types may be used if necessary. 
Look for small dead trees or dead branches on large trees. 
No axe is necessary, as small dead sticks can be broken 
easily. As the wood is gathered, stand it on end in the snow 
near where the fire is to be built. This, of course, is to keep 
the wood free from snow. 

3) Now remove skis and kick some snow away from the 
spot where the fire is to be built, then tramp down the 
remainder. Powder snow will not pack but it will be con¬ 
siderably settled and that is all that is necessary. After the 
fire has been burning for a few minutes, the snow around 
the fire will pack hard under foot, so one will be standing 
on a packed surface, rather than in loose snow. 

4) Next, break some of the larger sticks into approxi¬ 
mately two-foot lengths and lay several layers of these on 
the snow to form a base for the fire. These base logs will 
keep the snow from melting away quickly, forming a hole 
under the fire resulting in the fire going out. These founda¬ 
tion logs burn slowly, but will last as long as required. 

5) To start the fire use paper, birch bark, or small dead 
twigs from the base of evergreens. Standing dead wood is 
usually drier in winter than in summer and burns very 
readily. Before starting the fire, see that there is sufficient 
wood, broken into convenient lengths, handy. 

6) A green stick can now be inserted in the snow on 
which to hang the tea pail. Start by packing the pail full of 
snow. As the snow melts, add chunks of snow rather than 
trying to put powder snow into the pail, as that usually 
results in some snow falling into the fire. 

7) At most, it will require about five minutes longer 
than in summer to make tea under these conditions. There¬ 
fore, lunch can easily be prepared and eaten within an hour. 

8) There should be a fire for each four to six skiers so 
each one may have a place near the fire at all times, where 
he may share its warmth and prepare his lunch. To keep 
warm on a cold day, one must remain close to the fire. 


Photo courtesy Camp Hollyburn 



9) For a quick lunch, sandwiches are ideal. They may be 
toasted on a forked stick to provide a warm lunch, which is 
highly recommended in cold weather. Frankfurters, sausages, 
bacon or steak may be cooked on a stick or small frying 
pan. Raisins, chocolate and cheese also make a good trail 
food. For a hot drink, soup, coffee, tea and chocolate are 
easily prepared. 

10) If squatting or sitting on heels near fire is not com¬ 
fortable, skis with running surface down will make a satis¬ 
factory seat. 

11) Plan in advance each step to be taken; choose your 
site only after you have located the dead wood for the fire. 
Have each member of the party help with preparations and 
you will find, after very little experience, that the lunch 
hour is one of the most pleasant parts of the day’s skiing. 

12) Finally, stop for lunch as soon as the first member 
of the party feels hungry. And remember to carry an extra 
sweater and put it on as soon as you stop. 

Suggestions donnees aux skieurs qui ne savent pas preparer 
un repas en excursion. 


Highest value, proven equipment for individuals 
and organizations involved in 
self-propelled outdoor activities . . . 
canoeing, kayaking, hiking, backpacking, 
snowshoeing, cross country skiing, orienteering 
and all-season camping. 

Free mail order catalogue on request; 
institutional inquiries welcomed. 
Equipment rentals and leasing available. 

f^^ a ppy Outdoors ^td. 

433 ST. MARY'S ROAD 
WINNIPEG, MANITOBA R2M 3K7 (204) 233-1730 


24 





Photo courtesy Camp Tawingo 




Cawvp vs.... 

by Madelene Allen 

Director , Camp Ouareau 


Many things have been written by many directors in 
poetry and in prose about what camp is. This past summer, 
I asked my campers to write down what camp meant to 
them, to use in a Sunday Evening Program. These were 
written so simply, so genuinely, that I would like to share 
them with a wider audience who know too what camp is, 
but who probably tend to say it more formally. 

Camp is: 

Going on a canoe trip in the wilderness 
Having your rainy day program spoiled by the sun 
The joy of making friends and keeping them 
Showing your skill by passing tests 
Hearing a chipmunk run past your tent in the night 
Being together with great people who share a common 
interest in a beautiful setting 
The sunset at the end of the lake highlighting the moun¬ 
tains 

Tent hopping 

Making “Heavy Dew Days” into sunshine days 
Just being out-of-doors 
Campfires, the out-of-doors and friends 
Hearing the counsellor say. . . “Flashlights OUT!” 
Learning to be “copesetic” 

Going in a canoe and teasing your counsellor 
The hurry-scurry fun-filled day followed by a quiet 
peaceful evening 

Listening to the rain falling on your tent during the night 
Bymph 

Making do with what you’ve got 

Sitting on the sand and watching the waves rock the 
canoes 

Chipmunks playing tag on your roof at 6 a.m. 

Getting more than one letter at mail call 
Anything that makes you happy 
Running free 

Eating in the big dining room 
Writing a letter home 
Living out of a suitcase 
A junior’s loving hug 
Being on your own 
The mist on the lake 

Feeling safe as the fire plane drones overhead 
Great counsellors 
Warmth of the fire and friendship 
Most of all, never wanting it to end as you see the days 
whiz by. 

There may be times when we wonder what the younger 
generation is coming to. There may be times when we won¬ 
der, as directors, if it is all worth it. But I hope you will 
have asked your campers what camp means to them, and 
that you too have a warm list to tuck into the back of your 
little black book to look at when the going is a little rougher 
than smooth. 




Photo courtesy Camp Holly burn 







CLASSIFIED ADS 


LET A NEW PRODUCT LINE 
HELP YOU SHOW A PROFIT 
ON YOUR FOOD PURCHASES 
FOR 1976 

using “CIRCLE” 

CONCENTRATED MIXES 
YOU CAN REDUCE YOUR COSTS: 

For example 


Orange Drink. 49</pergal. 

Lemonade. 46dpergal. 

Fruit Syrup Drinks .... 46</ per gal. 

Jelly Dessert Mixes .... 62d per lb. 
Pudding & Pie Fill Mixes 244 per lb. 
Instant Pudding Mixes. . 424 per lb. 
Cake Mixes. 40d per lb. 

Soup Bases. 33d per gal. 


DISTRIBUTION ACROSS CANADA 


Write or phone for a Trial Sample: 

CIRCLE FOOD PRODUCTS LTD. 
58 CARNFORTH ROAD, 
TORONTO, ONT. M4A 2K7 
(416) 759-1159 


Tips continued 

When you’ve finished painting that 
sailboat, or whatever, and have leftover 
paint, dab some of it on the outside of 
the can at the level of paint inside. 
This not only lets you know the colour, 
but how much paint is left. All without 
having to reopen the can. 


You can remove crayon marks from a 
parchment lampshade by rubbing a ball 
of soft bread over the marks. 


You can clean and deodorize household 
sponges by tucking a sponge in the 
silverware compartment of your auto¬ 
matic dishwasher. It comes out of the 
cycle smelling sweet and clean each 
time. 


Vous trouverez ici dix trues pour utili- 
ser un rouleau vide de papier a main, le 
beurre d’arachide, un reste de liqueur 
douce, le liquide a briquet, comment 
conserver le nettoyeura pinceaux, utili- 
ser du mauvais raisin, faire disparaitre 
les marques de crayon d’un abat-jour 
en parchemin. 


k CAMS* 

TIME Jk\ 

jjS) is time for mm 




PRINTED NAME TAPES 


ALL CAMPERS' CLOTHING AND 
BELONGINGS 

should be marked for easy identification- 
losses are costly. 

CAMP LINEN AND EQUIPMENT, TOO, 
should be marked to avoid confusion 
and loss. 

NAMES OR NUMBERS CAN BE 
SUPPLIED. 

Order CASH'S NAME TAPES from 
department stores and other dealers — 
or direct from 

CASH'S 

CANADA LABELS LIMITED 

BOX 70. STATION S 
MONTREAL. QUEBEC 

PRINTED NAME PRICES 

6 doz. $3.20 9 doz. $3.65 

12 doz. $4.50 24 doz. $5.50 

No C.O.D.s. Please mail cheque or 
money order. 

Please include appropriate 
Provincial Sales Tax. 


- CLASSIFIED ADS - 

- CAMPS - 

YMCA Camp Kawartha, nestled beside 
Clear Lake in the Kawarthas, offers 
beautiful, natural surroundings and 
imaginative programs for boys and girls 
from 8 to 14. Activities include canoeing, 
crafts, canoe tripping, sailing, archery, 
hiking, field sports, swimming and many, 
many more. 

For further information, contact 

The Family YMCA, 

475 George St. N., 

Peterborough, Ont. (705)742-5458 


SIGHT POINT CAMP 
Cape Breton Island, Nova Scotia 
An unusual summer camping experience 
on mountain farm by sea. Daily morning 
work program sets tone of this small, 
informal, co-ed camp, ages 12-17. After¬ 
noons for swimming, riding, boating, 
hiking,other outdoor activities. Overnight 
camping. 

Write: Mrs. Jean Rosner 

Box 59, Inverness, N.S. 


The Salvation Army Family Services 
Department, Toronto, operates a co-ed 
camp for children of low income families 
ages eight to twelve at Jackson's Point 
on Lake Simcoe. 

Seven-day camp periods through July and 
August. 

Enquiries re staff and campers invited to 

148 Jarvis Street, Toronto 


PARTNER WANTED to help buy, set-up 
and operate a new or existing camp in 
Quebec, Ontario or New England. Capital 
investment not required as money is 
already arranged. 

M. Segal, 51 Belvedere Road, 

Westmount, P.Q. 

Tel.: (514) 937-4633 


EXPERIENCED CAMP DIRECTOR/ 
ADMINISTRATOR 

Recreation Director seeks Senior Camp¬ 
ing and/or Recreation responsibility. 
Full-time position preferred but seasonal 
assignment would be considered. 
Presently employed; available on one 
month's notice. 

Reply to: Box 71, Canadian Camping 
102 Eglinton Ave. E., 

Suite 203, Toronto, Ontario 
M4P1 El 


WANTED 
to Purchase 

A camp with facilities for 175 - 200 
campers Ottawa, Kingston area. 

Please reply to: 

Box 50, Canadian Camping 
102 Eglinton Ave. E., 

Suite 203, Toronto, Ontario 
M4P1 El 


FRESH FRUIT FOR CAMPS 

Allodial Enterprises offers wholesale fresh 
produce, delivered within an approxi¬ 
mate 200 mile radius of Toronto. Service 
will be provided on a regular or occasional 
basis to suit the needs of your camp. 
Arrangements for provisional contracts 
are now being received. 

Contact: 64 St. Clair Ave. W., # 100 
Toronto, Ontario M4V 1 LI 
(416) 924-1917 


CANADIAN CAMPING 
MAGAZINE 

Normal Subscription Rates: 

$ 5.00 for one year 
$12.00 for three years 

SPECIAL OFFER 

Group Subscriptions for Member Camps 
and Camp Associates 
Five copies of each issue 
to a single address for only $20.00 a year 

Please complete section below and send 
your cheque to: 

Canadian Camping Magazine 
Suite 203, 102 Eglinton Ave. E. 
Toronto, Ont. M4P 1E1, Canada 


Name: 


Address: 


City: _ 

Prov. _ Postal Code 


Check one 

□ i year □ 3 years 


I—- Group 
I_I Subscription 


26 







































Canadian Camping 
national Directory 


Annuaire Hationak d«/ Camp/ 


1976 








Index 


ALBERTA CAMPING ASSOCIATION . 28 

B.C. CAMPING ASSOCIATION . 36 

MANITOBA CAMPING ASSOCIATION . 41 

NEW BRUNSWICK CAMPING ASSOCIATION / ASSOCIATION DE CAMPING DU NOUVEAU-BRUNSWICK . 47 

NEWFOUNDLAND & LABRADOR CAMPING ASSOCIATION . 49 

NOVA SCOTIA CAMPING ASSOCIATION . 52 

ONTARIO CAMPING ASSOCIATION . 54 

L'ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU QUEBEC (Section franpaise) . 68 

QUEBEC CAMPING ASSOCIATION (English section) . 79 

SASKATCHEWAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION . 87 


Commercial use of this National Canadian Camping Association Directory can be made upon application to the Managing Director, Canadian 
Camping Magazine, 102 Eglinton Avenue East, Suite 203, Toronto, Ontario M4P 1 El. 

II est possible d'utiliser le Bottin National de I'A.C.C. pour fins de reclame en communicant avec le Gerant general de la Revue Canadian 
Camping, 102 Eglinton Avenue East, Suite 203, Toronto, Ontario M4P 1E1. 


In choosing your child's camp 
be sure ... 

1. Adequate accident and emergency methods and procedures 
are established and used. 

2. There is one person completely responsible for your child's 
welfare at all times. 

3. Sufficient medical attention is available (R.N. in attendance, 
doctor on call, well equipped infirmary). 

4. Sleeping, eating and sanitary facilities are safe, comfortable, 
well-spaced and well-ventilated; activity equipment and facilities 
are adequate. 

5. Camp program is varied, well balanced and flexible to fit the 
individual camper's need for self-expression. 

6. There is opportunity to develop social relationships, new 
experiences and leadership skills. 

7. Camp director has a sound camping background and an under¬ 
standing of children; the counsellors are mature, well trained 
and experienced. 

8. The ratio of campers to counsellors is satisfactory to provide 
safe conditions and opportunity for group interaction. 

9. You understand all aspects of the camp's fee structure and 
the rationale which supports it. 

10. You are prepared to follow and support camp policy with 
regard to your child and to ready him adequately for the 
new experience. 

11. You make the camp aware of any special needs or considera¬ 
tions (physical or emotional) of your child, and the camp is 
prepared to meet them to your satisfaction. 

12. You talk with parents of children who have attended the 
camp or with campers themselves; if possible, you visit the 
camp. 

13. The camp is a member of a provincial camping association. 


Dans le choix d'un camp pour votre enfant 
assurez-vous... 

1. que des mesures et procedes adequats sont etablis en cas 
d'accident et en cas d'urgence. 

2. que la presence d'une personne responsable du bien-etre de 
votre enfant est assuree en tout temps. 

3. qu'il y a des soins medicaux suffisants en tout temps. (In- 
firmiere diplomee sur place, un mSdecin responsable du camp 
et une infirmerie bien equippee.) 

4. que les dortoirs, refectoires et endroits sanitaires assurent secu¬ 
rity et comfort, procurent suffisamment d'espace et de ventila¬ 
tion; et que les endroits et l'6quipement a fin recreative sont 
adequats. 

5. que le programme est vari^e et flexible afin de favoriser le 
developpement de la personnalite de chaque participant. 

6. que le camp conduit a de meilleures relations sociales, de 
nouvelles experiences permettant I'epanouissement des qualites 
de chef. 

7. que le directeur a une profonde comprehension des enfantset 
I'experience du camp; que les moniteurs ont de la maturite, de 
I'experience et un certain entrafnement dans la direction d'un 
camp. 

8. que le nombre des campeurs et des moniteurs est proportionne 
afin de favoriser un meilleur controle du bien-etre de chaque 
campeur et de I'interaction a I'interieur du groupe. 

9. que vous acceptez tous les aspects financiers et comprenez les 
raisons du montant exige pour la duree du camp. 

10. que vous £tes prets a seconder la politique du camp et a pre¬ 
parer adequatement votre enfant avant de le lancer vers cette 
nouvelle experience. 

11. que tous besoins ou considerations speciales (physiques ou 
emotives) concernant votre enfant, ont ete discute avec la 
direction du camp et resolu a votre satisfaction. 

12. que les parents des campeurs precedents et les campeurs eux- 
memes sont satisfaits de leur experience; si possible, visitez 
le camp. 

13. que le camp est membre d'une association provinciale de 
camping. 




27 














Alberto Camping A//ociation 

332 - 6th Avenue S.W. 

Calgary, Alberta T2P 0R5 
Telephone: (403) 269-6156 




EXECUTIVE 



President 

Nestor Kelba 

R.R. #2, Calgary, Alta. 
T2P2G5 

267-9682 

Vice-President 

(Standards) 

Lou Lanier 

13 Royal Rd., Edmonton, 
Alberta T6J 2E7 

434-9772 

Past President 

Miss Jan James 

10943 — 72 Avenue, 
Edmonton, Alta. T6G 0B1 

432-3655 

Vice-President 

(Education) 

Gary Luthy 

332 - 6 Avenue S.W., 
Calgary, Alta. T2P 0R5 

269-6156 


Secretary/Treasurer: Bill Hawley 

No. 300, 444 — 5 Avenue S.W., 
Calgary, Alta. T2P 2T8 


ALBERTA CAMPING ASSOCIATION 

The Alberta Camping Association is a Provincial Section of the Canadian Camping Association (which was incorporated by 
Letters Patent at Ottawa, November 5, 1949). 

This is an organization that believes in organized camping as an educational recreational movement located in the out-of-doors 
setting, dedicated to furthering the growth and development of children through experiencing group life under qualified 
persons. 

The objectives of the Alberta Camping Association are: 

1. To further the interests and welfare of children, youths and adults through camping as an educative, 
character-building and constructive recreational experience. 

2. To act as an Alberta promotional and coordinating body for camping through this province. 

3. To develop, maintain and recognize high standards in camping. 

4. To represent member groups and to serve as a contact between the government and those groups, and 
to keep people informed of governmental developments and regulations. 

5. To interpret and disseminate knowledge concerning camping in general and to study the wider aspects 
of the camping movement. 

All this is brought about by a volunteer group of camp directors, leaders, counsellors, who strive to bring these objectives 
about. 

No one associated with the Alberta Camping Association receives any monetary compensation or gain of any kind. 

Any group or individual who shares the aims and objectives of the Alberta Camping Association in Alberta is welcome to 
apply for membership. 

The Alberta Camping Association has no direct control over any of its member groups, and therefore does not undertake to 
recommend any camp or person. 

CAMP ACCREDITATION PROGRAM 

One of the major objectives of the Camping Association is to improve camping standards, and to achieve this, the association 
established minimum standards in 1970. These standards cover facilities, health, sanitation, safety, staff and administration. 
Member camps may apply for accreditation under this program. Members of the standards committee will visit the camp and 
discuss the facilities and operation with the camp Director. If the standards are met, the camp is accredited. 

The Accreditation is for a two-year duration. At the end of two years, the camp will be contacted to determine if a new visit 
is necessary. Accreditation is not transferable from site to site, nor from owner to owner. Should either occur then a revisit 
would become necessary. 

The program has been a great help to many camps, as it provides a yardstick to measure their performance. It is primarily 
educational, and will eventually be tied closely with the education and staff training program now being developed by the 
Association. 

Although in the initial stages providing the necessary staff to visit the many camps that have applied for accreditation has 
been a problem, the program has been of great benefit for both the camp Directors and the visiting teams. For the parents of 
camp children, the program provides assurance that the standards set by the association are maintained in member camps. 

The standards and the way to apply them are under continuing critical examination and they will be changed from time to 
time to meet the needs of our members. 


28 




ALBERTA 


Camp Adventure 

Camp B'Nai B'Rith 

Canyon Church Camp 

Camp Chamisall 

Champ Chestermere 

Christian Youth Camps (Maskepetoon) 

City of Calgary Day Camps 

Covenant Bay Bible Camp 

Crowsnest Lake Bible Camp 

Frontier Lodge 

Camp Gardner 

Gull Lake Baptist Camp 

James River Bible Camp 

Camp Kananaskis 


Alberta Camp Cherith 
Alberta Conference Camp Committee 
Alberta Evangelical Camp 
Bar Harbour Camp 
Boys Clubs of Edmonton 
C.G.l.T. Camp Council 
Canadian Mental Health Ass'n. — 
Edmonton 
Camp Caroline 

Christian Camping International 
Elkwater United Church Camp 


ACCREDITED CAMPS 

Camp Kasota - West 
Kiwanis Kamp 

Camp Mockingbird (see Girl Guides) 
Moose Lake Gospel Camp 
Nazarene Youth Camp 
Camp Okotoks 
Pine Lake Camp 
Pioneer Camps 
— Pioneer Lodge 
— Pioneer Ranch 
Silvercreek Ranch 
Surprise Lake Camp 
Teen Time of Edmonton — 

Moose Lake Camp 

MEMBER CAMPS 

Girl Guides of Canada — 

Alberta Council 

Girl Guides of Canada — Calgary Area 
Girl Guides of Canada — Chinook Area 

1. Camp Okeekun 

2. Elkwater Camp 

Girl Guides of Canada — Edmonton Area 

Camp He- Ho- Ha 

Camp Kannawin 

Mill Creek Baptist Camp 

Mount Royal College 


Camp Silversides (provisional accred.) 

Camp Teepee Pole 

Camp Van-Es 

Camp Wapiti 

Camp Wo He Lo 

Y.M.C.A. Calgary 

1. Camp Chief Hector 

2. Camping and Outdoor Education 

Centre 

3. Wilderness One 
Y.W.C.A. Calgary 

1. Camp Kinnaird 

2. Mini Camp 


Mulhurst Lutheran Church Camp 
Nakamun Camp 

Off Campus - Environmental Studies 
Skysta 

St. Mary's Camp 

University of Alberta 

University of Calgary 

Camp Valaqua 

Whispering Pines Bible Camp 

Wilderness Encounter 

Y.W.C.A. — Edmonton Y.W.C.A. Camps 


ACCREDITED MEMBER CAMPS 


CAMP ADVENTURE (Boys & Girls Clubs of Calgary) 


Mobile Camps: 
Resident Camp: 
Season: 

Fees: 

Location: 

Program: 


Purpose: 


Contact Person : 


Criterion — interest 
Boys and girls 8-16 

July and August, four ten-day periods for boys 
and girls. Extended periods on request. 

Available upon request 
Sibbald Lake — Bow Crow Forest 
Waterfront, kayaking, canoeing, rowboats, fish¬ 
ing, outripping, outdoor education activities, 
specific arts and crafts, mobile mountaineering, 
photography, an extended wilderness experi¬ 
ence is available for interested teens. 

To provide a learning and fun experience in the 
out-of-doors with special opportunities for per¬ 
sonal skill development through group inter¬ 
action. The overall emphasis provides an 
opportunity to develop a comfortableness in a 
wilderness setting. 

Bill Skinner 

Camp Office, Boys and Girls Clubs of Calgary 
712 5th Street S.E., Calgary, Alberta 
Phone: 265-9465 


CAMP B'NAI B'RITH (north-west Canada Council of 
B'Nai B'Rith) 


Resident Camp: 
Capacity: 

Fees: 

Camping Season: 

Location: 

Purpose: 

Contact Person: 


Rental: 


Ages 8-16 years 

150 each three-week session 

$250 per three-week session 

Two three-weeks — sessions begin July 

Pine Lake 

The camp provides a recreational and cultural 
experience for Jewish children. 

Dr. William A. Meloff, Director 

71 Quesnell Road, Edmonton, Alta. T5R 5N1 

Phone: 436-2084 

Business Office: 1107, 10235 — 124 Street 

Edmonton. Phone: 487-0899 
Available May and June 


CANYON CHURCH CAMP (Canyon Church Camp Ass'n. 

United Church of Canada) 


Resident Camp: 

Location: 

Program: 


Contact Person: 


Waterton Lakes Park 

Climbing, outtripping, utilization of National 
Park hiking trails. 

One-week mountain holiday for Senior Citizens. 
Mrs. Alice Cleland 

Box 1422, Pincher Creek, Alberta T0K 1W0 


CAMP CHAMISALL (Christian and Missionary Alliance 
Churches of Southern Alberta) 


Resident Camp: 
Fees: 

Camping Season: 
Location: 
Contact Person: 


Program: 

Purpose: 


50 co-ed 9 - 18 years (in 6 age groups) 

$25.00 per week for first child in family 
$13.00 per week each additional child 
July and August 
Waiparous River 
Mr. Ron Carter 

4507 Richmond Road S.W., Calgary, 

Alberta T3E 4P9 
Phmne: 242-6046 
Outtripping 

We operate under a written constitution — 
copy is available on request. 


CAMP CHESTERMERE (The Gospel Missionary Ass'n.) 


Resident Camp: 

Fees: 

Location: 
Contact Persons: 


Purpose: 


Co-ed ages 8 - college age 

Winter Program 

Available upon request 

S.E. corner, Chestermere Lake 

Mr. Grant Williams Bob Butt 

Bag 3900 Box 21, Site No. 2 

Station B, Calp^ry R.R.7 Calgary 


T2M 4M5 T2P 2G7 

Phone: 272-9548 

Spiritual, social, physical, mental development. 
A Christian camp. 

Available for rent. 


CHRISTIAN YOUTH CAMPS (Inc. Camp Maskepetoon) 


Youth Camp 

Capacity: 

Location: 

Fees: 

Season: 

Contact Person: 


Facilities. 

Rentals: 

Purpose: 


80 campers, youths ages 8 - 20 
30 - 40 staff 

North side of Pigeon Lake 

$38.00 per week (includes transportation) 

8 one-week camps, July and August 
Dr. Bruce Yoneda 
College Plaza No. 1, 

Edmonton, Alberta 

Main lodge and ten log cabins. 

Year round except in summer months 
Christian youth camping with boating, outdoor 
camping and hiking. 


CITY OF CALGARY - DAY CAMPS 

(Parks and Recreation Dept.) 

Capacity: 300 campers every two weeks — 5 camps 

Fees: $15.00 per camp period 

Camping Season: July and August 

Location: Calgary (in five city parks) 


29 




ALBERTA 


Contact Person: 


Purpose: 


Gary Kitson 

P.0. Box 2100, Parks & Recreation Dept. 
Calgary, Alta. T2P 2M5 
Phone: 268-5211 

An introduction to camping, camping skills and 
nature. We cover camping, nature lore and 
crafts, hiking, archery, sing-songs and general 
camping activities and skills. 


COVENANT BAY BIBLE CAMP (Alberta Missionary 


Fees: 

Location: 
Contact Person: 


Purpose: 


Society) 

$15.00 
Pigeon Lake 
Mr. Cy Haukedal 
13 Clearwater Crescent 
Devon, Alberta 
Bible Camp. 


CROWSNEST LAKE BIBLE CAMP (Crowsnest Lake 
Bible Camp Association) 

Resident outtripping camp 


Capacity: 

Fees: 

Camping Season: 

Location: 

Program: 

Contact Persons: 


Purpose: 


100 girls 9 - 12 years. 100 boys 12-17 years 
100 co-ed 18 and over, 20 families 
No fees for own camp. Available upon request 
for renting. 

Camp is fully winterized for year-round use. 

8 miles west of Coleman 

Climbing, outtripping, cookouts, skating, skiing. 
James Burton Dr. Cy Bryant 

320 - 46 Ave. S.W. Box 820, Pincher Creek 

Calgary T2S 1B6 Alta. T0K 1W0 

Phone: 243-1206 Phone: 627-3041 

To develop a whole camper, physically, men¬ 
tally and socially, spiritually. 


FRONTIER LODGE (Alberta Youth for Christ) 

Wilderness Camp — ages 12-18 


Capacity: 

Fees: 

Camping Season: 
Emphasis: 
Location: 
Contact Person: 


Purpose: 


50 girls, 150 boys 
Available upon request 
11 day periods, July and August 
Outtripping 

Shunda (Fish) Lake, 5 miles west of Nordegg 
Frontier Lodge, Box 1449 
Rocky Mountain House, Alta. TOM 1T0 
Phone: 721-2202 

To provide a positive approach to the problems 
faced by young people, to create an atmosphere 
of physical, mental, social and spiritual aware¬ 
ness for campers. 


CAMP GARDNER (Boy Scouts of Canada — 

Calgary Regional Council) 

Resident Wilderness Camp 

Capacity: 700 per summer, 8-16 years 

Fees: Available on request 

Season: 3 days up to 14 day periods in July and August. 

Group camping year round. Pioneer, riding and 
outtripping. 

Contact Person: Mr. Bob Schwartzenberger, P.O. Box 3247 

Station B, Calgary, Alta. T2M 4L8 
Phone: 283-4993 
Camp is available for rent. 

Purpose: To help boys develop their characters and to 

become resourceful and responsible members of 
the community by providing opportunities and 
guidance for their mental, physical, social and 
spiritual development. 


GULL LAKE BAPTIST CAMP (Baptist Union of 

Western Canada) 


Location: 
Resident Camp: 
Capacity: 
Off-site Camps: 


Fees per Week: 
Contact Persons: 


Purpose: 


McLaurin Beach, Gull Lake, Alberta 
9 years and over 

84 campers per week, family camp 125 
Mounting Hiking — 14 years and over 
Canoe Trip — 15 years and over 
Limited Registration. 

$30.00, off-site $35.00 

Mrs. V. Harbidge Mr. R. Olson 

2744 Lougheed Dr. R.R.3, McLaurin Beach 

S.W., Calgary, Lacombe, Alta. 

Alta. T3E 5T8 Phone: 782-2192 

Phone: 246-9570 

To provide an opportunity for a recreational 
experience; to grow in harmony with God, His 
people and His universe. 


JAMES RIVER BIBLE CAMP (Missionary Church) 


Location: 

Rental: 

Facilities: 


Contact Person: 


On James River — 9 miles north, IV 2 miles west 
of Sundre, Alberta 

Available for rent complete with catering service 
Full weeks and week-ends. 

Washroom and showers, power outlets for trail¬ 
ers. 24 cabins, Auditorium, dining hall. Boating, 
Hiking, swimming facilities nearby. 

Winter skiing. 

Mr. Willard Stauffer 

R.R. 1, Didsbury, Alberta TOM 0W0 

Phone: 335-3715 


CAMP KANANASKIS (Anglican Diocese of Calgary) 

Resident Camps (youth) 


Capacity: 

Fees: 

Location: 
Contact Person: 


Purpose: 


60 campers, girls, boys, co-ed 8-15 years 
$40.00 per week 

Kananaskis Forest Reserve, Seebee 

Mr. Dave Brown, No. 405, 314 — 14 St. N.W. 

Calgary, Alta. T2N 1Z7 

Phone: 283-9084 

Christian living. 

Camp is available for rent. 


CAMP KASOTA - WEST (Calgary Presbytery of 

United Church of Canada) 


Resident camp: children, youth, and adults 


Capacity: 

Fees: 

Location: 
Camping Season: 
Contact Person: 


Purpose: 


Program: 


80 campers, 6 - 98 years 
$45.00 per week 
Sylvan Lake 

July - August (6 one-week camps) 

Mr. Jim McVeigh, 3027 - 33A Ave. S.E. 
Calgary, Alta. T2B 0J9 
Phone: 272-7012 

To provide a well-rounded, supervised camp 
experience in which sports, camping skills and 
fellowship are underlined by a planned program 
of Christian Education. 

Waterfront, outtripping, singing, Christian Edu¬ 
cation program, archery. 

Rental Available in off-season. 


KIWANIS KAMP (Downtown Kiwanis Club — Calgary) 


Resident Camp 

Capacity: 

Fees: 

Location: 
Camping Season: 
Contact: 


Purpose: 

Program: 


80 girls 9-12 years; 80 boys 9-12 years 
Sponsored by Kiwanis Club 
Springbank 
Four 10-day periods 

Camp Chairman, Kamp Kiwanis, Room 40 
Palliser Hotel, Calgary, Alta. 

Phone: 262-2900 

To give a camping experience to those children 
who would not otherwise have one. 

Waterfront 


MOOSE LAKE GOSPEL CAMP 


Resident Camp 

Capacity: 

Fees: 

Location: 
Contact Person: 


150 per camp (girls, boys, co-ed, family: 1 week 
each in July) 

Available upon request 
Moose Lake, with waterfront facilities 
Mr. Cecil Quist, Marwayne, Alta. T0B 2X0 
Phone: 847-3738 


NAZARENE YOUTH CAMP (Canada West District- 

Church of the Nazarene) 

Resident Camp: one week periods 


Capacity: 

Fees: 

Camping Season: 
Location: 

Program: 

Purpose: 


Contact Person: 


girls 70, boys 70, co-ed 140, family 300 
Available upon request 
June to August 

On Little Red Deer River, Harmatten, 15 miles 
west of Olds on Hiway 27 
Swimming pool, sports, outtripping 
To help campers toward a full and wholesome 
life through a personal relationship with God 
and an understanding of His Love. 

Mr. E. Trevor Morgan 

Box 444, Sundre, Alta. TOM 1X0 

Phone: 638-3689 


30 




ALBERTA 


CAMP OKOTOKS (Camp Okotoks Society) 

(c/o Bethal Chapel, 2323 Osborne Cr. S.W., Calgary) 
Accredited camp site suitable for resident camp rented to church 
organizations for all camp periods. 


Capacity: 

Fees: 

Location: 

Season: 

Contact Person: 


Purpose: 


100 per camp period, 9 years and up 
$15.00 per week 

2 miles east of Okotoks on the Sheep River 
July and August 
Wayne Cameron 

1544 Lake Twin Tree Way, S.E. Calgary 
Phone: 271-0051 

Outdoor living and instruction with emphasis 
on Christian living. 

Camp available for rent. 


PINE LAKE CAMP (Salvation Army) 

Resident Camp — multi-purpose 


Capacity: 

Fees: 

Contact Person: 


Purpose: 


150 — all ages 

Daily $2.50; $35.00 per week 
Major Fred Halliwell 

Salvation Army, Rom. 404, 10102 — 101 St. 
Edmonton, Alta. T5J 0S5 
Phone: 423-2111 

Camp for Scouts, Guides, Brownies, Cubs, 
Senior Citizens, Bible Fellowship, music, wel¬ 
fare, wilderness camps, for schools and retreats. 
Available for rent in off-season to selected 
groups. 


PIONEER CAMPS (Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship) 
PIONEER LODGE (I.V.C.F.) 


Resident Camp 

Capacity: 

Location: 

Fees: 

Season: 

Emphasis: 

Contact Person: 


75 boys or girls or co-ed 

10 miles from Sundre on Red Deer River 

$175.00 for two weeks 

Year round 

Riding, riflery, archery, and other usual, swim¬ 
ming, outtripping, snow activities 
Pioneer Lodge 

8611 - 109 St., Edmonton T6G 1 E7 
Mr. Donald Cunningham 
Box 237, Sundre, Alta. TOM 1 X0 
Phone: 225-3505 

Available for rent January, June, September. 


PIONEER RANCH CAMP (I.V.C.F.) 


Resident Camp 

Capacity: 

Fees: 

Season: 

Emphasis: 

Location: 

Contact Person: 


125 all ages 

$175.00 for two weeks 
July and August 

Riding, riflery, archery and other usual, swim¬ 
ming 

Crimson Lake, 10 miles west and north of 
Rocky Mountain House 
Pioneer Camps 

8611 - 109 St., Edmonton, Alta. T6G 1E7 
Phone: 433-4916 


SILVERCREEK RANCH (Mr. & Mrs. Hank Roessingh) 


Resident Camp 

Capacity: 

Camping Season: 
Fees: 

Contact: 


Program: 

Location: 

Purpose: 


Rental: 


100 co-ed ages 7-14 (higher age bracket at some 
periods) 

Year round 

Available upon request 

Mr. & Mrs. Hank Roessingh 

540 - 49 Ave. S.W., Calgary, Alta. T2S 1 G5 

Phone: 243-4929 

Riding, outdoor education 

Water Valley 

To provide an educational and recreational 
experience in the outdoors; to provide an 
opportunity to meet and play and work with 
young Canadians from other geographical, 
social and ethnic backgrounds. 

Available for rent September to June 


SURPRISE LAKE CAMP (United Church of Canada) 


Resident Camp 

Capacity: 

Fees: 

Camping Season. 
Location: 
Contact Person: 


50 co-ed ages 10-17 years 
Available upon request 
July and August 
Surprise Lake 
Mr. McDevitt 

14504— 107 A Ave., Edmonton, Alta. T5N 1G5 
Phone: 455-3909 


TEEN TIME OF EDMONTON - Moose Lake Camp 

Resident Camp: 9 day periods - August — ages 12 - 19 years 


Location: 
Contact Person: 


Purpose: 


Fees: 


Moose Lake near Bonnyville 
Wally Sczebel 

9523 Jasper Ave., Edmonton, Alta. T5M 3V2 
Phone: 488-9924 

To provide an enjoyable experience in camping 
and to provide opportunity for development of 
a balanced life socially, spiritually, physically 
and mentally. 

Available upon request 


CAMP TEEPEE POLE (Christian Service Brigade) 


Wilderness Camp 

Capacity: 

Location: 

Fees: 

Contact Person: 


60 boys 9 to 18 years 
Teepee Pole Creek, Sundre 
Available upon request 
Al Brunner 

17708 - 85 Ave., Edmonton, Alta. T5T 0N6 


CAMP VAN—ES (The Moravian Church) 


Resident Camp 

Capacity: 

Location: 

Fees: 

Contact Person: 
Purpose: 


65 campers 
South Cooking Lake 
Available upon request 
Mr. Alfred Harke 

R.R.2, Box 125, S. Edmonton, T6C 4E6 
To give campers an understanding of and rela¬ 
tionship with God: to help each camper at his 
own stage of development, to discover Christian 
ways of living with each other and to find satis¬ 
faction in making his relationships with others 
increasingly Christian. 


CAMP WAPITI (McLaurin Baptist Church) 


Resident Camp 

Capacity: 
Location: 
Season: 

Contact Person: 


Purpose: 


124 co-ed 8-15 years 
Wapiti River, Grande Prairie 
July 

Mrs. Maxine Mollinga 
Box 175, Clairmont, Alberta 
Phone: 567-3954 

To experience Christian growth, to learn camp¬ 
ing skills and to develop a greater respect for 
nature. 


CAMP WO HE LO (Edmonton C.G.l.T. Camp Committee) 

Resident Camp 

Location: Pigeon Lake 

Ages: 12-17 years 

Contact Person: Mrs. G.E. Blake 

Apt. 208, 9511 - 80 Street, 

Edmonton, Alberta T6C 2S9 


Y.M.C.A. CALGARY 
1. CAMP CHIEF HECTOR 


Resident Camp 

Capacity: 

Location: 

Season: 

Purpose: 


Program: 


Contact Person: 


Fees: 


648 boys and girls aged 10-16 (216 each period) 
45 miles west of Calgary adjacent to the Trans 
Canada Hiway 
May to September 

The development of person in spirit, mind and 
body and in a sense of responsibility to each 
other and to the human community. 
Backpacking, canoeing, waterfront, horseback 
riding, pioneering program for older boys and 
girls. 

Gary Luthy 

332 - 6 Ave. S.W., Calgary, Alta. T2P 0R5 
Phone: 269-6156 
Available upon request 
Available for spring and fall. 


2. CAMPING AND OUTDOOR EDUCATION CENTRE/ 
YAMNUSKA 

Capacity: 72 in dormitoiy accommodation 

Location: 45 miles west of Calgary adjacent to the Trans 

Canada Hiway 

Season: Year round 

Purpose: To provide a unique environment for education 

and recreation. 


31 



ALBERTA 


Programs: The centre is used for year-round programs, 

outdoor education programs, conferences and 
seminars, family camps, winter camps, training 
programs, specialty camps. 

Contact Person: Gary Luthy 

332 - 6 Ave. S.W., Calgary, Alta. T2P 0R5 
Phone: 269-6156 

Fees: Available upon request 

Rental: Available for rent on a year-round basis. 


3. WILDERNESS ONE (Wilderness Camp) 


Capacity: 
Location: 
Season: 
Purpose: 
Program: 

Contact Person: 


Fees: 


48 co-ed 15 - 19 years (24 per period) 
Kananaskis Forest Reserve 
July and August 

An experience in personal growth. 

Mountain climbing, backpacking, wilderness 
survival. 

Gary Luthy 

332 - 6 Ave. S.W., Calgary, Alta. T2P 0R5 
Phone: 269-6156 
Available upon request. 


Y.W.C.A. — CALGARY 


1. CAMP KINNAIRD 

Girls' Residence Camp 


Capacity: 

Location: 

Season: 

Fees: 

Purpose: 

Emphasis: 
Contact Person: 


Rental: 


75 girls 8 to 16 years of age 
Sylvan Lake 
July and August 
Available upon request 

Personal development as well as growth within 
a group 

Swimming, canoeing, outtripping 
Camp Director, Y.W.C.A. 

320 - 5 Ave. S.E., Calgary, Alta. T2G 0E5 

Phone: 263-1550 

The camp site may be rented 


2. MINI-CAMP (Y.W.C.A.) 

Day Camp for boys and girls from 5 to 12 years of age 


Season: 

Capacity: 

Fees: 

Location: 

Purpose: 


Emphasis: 


Contact Person: 


July and August 
50 boys and girls 
Available on request 
Rural setting a short drive from Calgary 
To introduce children to outdoor camping, 
increase their awareness of their natural sur¬ 
roundings, and to provide opportunities for 
socialization with children and adults other than 
school friends or family. 

Nature crafts and exploration, swimming, over¬ 
night sleepout, and socializing. 

Day Camp Director, Y.W.C.A. 

320 — 5 Avenue S.E., Calgary, Alta. T2G 0E5 
Phone: 263-1550 


PROVISIONAL ACCREDITATION 


CAMP SILVERSIDES (Canadian Sunday School Mission) 


Resident Camp 

Capacity: 

Location: 

Rental: 

Fees: 

Special Emphasis: 
Contact Person: 


Purpose: 


100 co-ed 8 to 16 years 

Gull Lake, Brighton Beach 

The camp is available for rent. Rates available 

upon request. 

$18.00 to $25.00 per week 
Waterfront, Archery, orienteering 
Mr. Hoyt H. Smith 
Box 105, Erskine, Alberta TOC 1G0 
Phone: 742-5020 

The camp is a setting for young people to have 
a supervised, fun-filled week geared to provide 
a wholesome atmosphere for them to find that 
the answer to life is in God. 


MEMBER CAMPS 


Emphasis: To share Christianity with girls, helping them to 

grow to maturity with Christ in every phase of 
their lives. 

Contact Person: Sharon Kvill 

Box 1612, Stettler, Alta. TOC 2L0 
Phone: 742-2203 

ALBERTA CONFERENCE CAMP COMMITTEE 
(Alberta Conference of United Church of Canada) 

Contact Person: Rev. Gordon Oaks 

10209 — 123 Street, Edmonton, Alta. 

Phone: 482-1587 

ALBERTA EVANGELICAL CAMP (Evangelical Church) 

Resident Camp and Retreat 

Capacity: 200 — all ages 

Location: 20 miles west of Didsbury 

Fees: Available on request 

Special Emphasis: Retreat 

Contact Person: Samuel R. Sherman 

Box 151, Didsbury, Alberta TOM 0W0 
Phone: 335-3103 

Purpose: Designed primarily for spiritual growth and 

development. 

BAR HARBOUR (United Church of Canada) 

Resident Camp 

Capacity: 84 (co-ed boys and girls) 9 to 18 years 

Location: Buffalo Lake, north of Stettler 

Fees: $22.00 per week 

Rental: May, June, August and September 

Rental Fee: Ibd per day per camper up to 75 campers; 

50d per camper for any number over 75 

Contact Person: Mrs. Jim Hoopfer 

Box 1511, Stettler, Alberta TOC 2L0 
Purpose: Religious training 

Emphasis: Waterfront direction, handcraft, etc. 

BOYS CLUBS OF EDMONTON 

Contact: Jim Taylor 

Executive Director, Boys' Clubs of Edmonton 
No. 1, West Wing, 9542 - 101 Avenue 
Edmonton, Alberta T5H 0B3 
Phone: 423-2228 


CANADIAN GIRLS IN TRAINING CAMP COUNCIL 
(Alberta C.G.l.T. Association) 

Delegate C.G.l.T. Camp only 
Capacity: 60 girls are 15 to 17 years 

Fees: Available upon request 

Contact Person: Mrs. B. Durant 

25 Grafton Cres. S.W., Calgary, Alta. T3E 4X2 
Phone: 249-2441 


CANADIAN MENTAL HEALTH ASSOCIATION 

Edmonton Area Camp 

Contact Person: Noella Commings 

C.H.M.A. Office, No. 205, 10711 - 107 Ave. 
Edmonton, Alberta T5H 0W6 
Phone: 426-7020 


CAMP CAROLINE (Alberta Baptist Camp of The North 
American Baptist General Assembly) 


Family camping. Retreat Centre, Continuing Education Centre. 


Season: 

Capacity: 

Fees: 

Location: 

Rental: 

Contact: 


12 months 

Summer 130 Grade 4 to Adult 
Winter 100 Youth to Adult 
Available upon request 
3/4 miles south of Caroline, Alberta 
Available fall to spring 
Mr. Rudy Knop, Camp Manager 
Box 250, Caroline, Alberta 
Phone: 722-3939 


ALBERTA CAMP CHERITH (Pioneer Girls) 

Season: Summer 

Ages: grades 4-12 

Fees: Available upon request 

Camp will be operational 1976 


CHRISTIAN CAMPING INTERNATIONAL 

Alberta Chairman: Mr. Ron Carter 

4507 Richmond Rd. S.W. 
Calgary, Alberta T3E 4P9 
Phone: 242-6064 


32 




ALBERTA 


ELKWATER UNITED CHURCH CAMP 
(United Churches of Medicine Hat Area) 


Season: 

Capacity: 

Fee: 

Location: 
Emphasis and 
Purpose: 


Contact Person: 


July and August 
70, ages 7 to 18 years 
$25.00 per week 
Elkwater Lake 

Crafts, hiking, friends and fellowship. 

To provide a well rounded supervised camp 
experience — planned program of Christian 
Education 
Mrs. Elaine Worden 

112-7 Street S.E., Medicine Hat, Alta. T1A 1G7 
Phone: 526-3532 


GIRL GUIDES OF CANADA (Alberta Council) 


Provincial 

Commissioner: 


Mrs. O.R. Stevenson 

6704 — 87 St., Edmonton, Alta. 

Phone: 466-6700 


GIRL GUIDES OF CANADA (Calgary Area) 


ACCREDITED 

CAMP: 


2140 — Brownsea Dr. N.W. 
Calgary, Alberta T2N 3G9 
Phone: 283-0745 

CAMP MOCKINGBIRD 


GIRL GUIDES OF CANADA (Chinook Area) 


1. Camp Okeekun 


Capacity: 

Season: 

Location: 

Fees: 


Purpose and 
Emphasis: 

Rental: 

Contact Person: 


125 girls, ages 8 to 18 years 
May to October 

Two miles north of Fort McLeod 

Brownie: $1.00 / girl / camp 

Guides: $1.50 / girl / camp 

Weekend: $0.75 / girl / weekend 

General public: campsite only — 

$0.50 / person / day 

Use of campsite and tenting equipment — 

$1.00 / person / day 

Outdoor activities, campfire, camping skills, 
conservation, hiking, crafts, etc. 

To implement the Girl Guide Camping Program. 
On a limited basis 
Mrs. Louise Laqua 

113- 11 St. South, Lethbridge, Alta. T1K 1P7 
Phone: 328-2237 


2. Elkwater Girl Guide Camp 


Location: 

Capacity: 

Season: 

Fees: 

Note: 

Purpose and 
Emphasis: 
Contact Person: 


41 miles southeast of Medicine Hat in Cypress 

Hills Provincial Park 

Brownies: 12 to 18 girls 

Guides: 30 to 40 girls 

June to September 

Local: $1.50 / girl / camp 

Other Guide groups: $2.00 / girl / camp 
Open only to members of Girl Guides 
Nature study and conservation, hiking, boating, 
swimming, camping skills, etc. 

Mrs. Pauline Schaan 
353- 11 Street N.E.. 

Medicine Hat, Alta. 

Phone: 527-5477 


Rental: Camp available for rental in off season 

Winterized, fully modern facilities 
Accommodation for 100 persons 
All staff services provided. 

Contact Person: The Associated Canadian Travellers 

10226 - 109 St., Edmonton, Alta. T5J 1M9 
Phone: 424-6555 


CAMP KANNAWIN (The Presbyterian Church in Canada, 
Synod of Alberta) 


Resident Camp 

Capacity: 

Location: 

Season: 

Fees & camp dates: 
Registrar: 

Contact Person: 

Purpose: 


50 campers 
Sylvan Lake 

Mid-June to early September 
Available upon request 
Box 489, Sylvan Lake 
Mrs. J. Haliburton 

4 Gissing Dr. S.W., Calgary, Alta. T3E 4V7 
To provide an experience of Christian com¬ 
munity living; to foster an appreciation for 
God's gifts in nature: and to provide an oppor¬ 
tunity for mental, physical and spiritual growth 
in an out-of-doors setting. 


MILL CREEK BAPTIST CAMP (Baptist Union of 

Western Canada) 


Wilderness Camp 

Capacity: 


Location: 

Season: 

Fees: 

Emphasis: 
Contact Person: 

Purpose: 


35 boys or girls 9 to 12 years 
35 co-ed 12 to 15 years 
50 families 

17 miles west of Pincher Creek 

July and August, one week periods 

$14.00 to $16.00 per week 

Riding, outtripping and archery 

Rev. Ron Harris, Registrar 

Pincher Creek, Alta. T0K 1W0 

Christian camping in a Wilderness setting. 


MOUNT ROYAL COLLEGE 

Contact Person: Len Thomas 

Mount Royal College, Lincoln Park Campus 
4825 Richard Rd. S.W. 

Calgary, Alta. T3E 6K6 
Phone: 246-6515 

Purpose: To teach an introductory course in camping 

and outdoor education. 


MULHURST LUTHERAN CHURCH CAMP 
(Western Canada Synod, Lutheran Church in America) 


Resident Camp 

Capacity: 

Location: 

Season: 

Fees: 

Rental: 

Emphasis: 
Contact Person: 


90 co-ed; 15 family camp sites 
Pigeon Lake, Mulhurst, Alta. 

June 29 - August 24 
$35.00 per week 

Campfacilities including lounge, kitchen, dining 
room and bunkhouse available Sept. 1 - June 28. 
Waterfront, outtripping 
Mr. O.D. Olson 

9901 - 107 St., Edmonton, Alta. T5K 1G4 
Phone: 429-7919 


GIRL GUIDES OF CANADA (Edmonton Area) 

Season: Year round 

Capacity: Ages 7 to adult, wilderness 20, Sandy Lake 138 

Fees: Available upon request 

Location: Sandy Lake, Tangle Trees, Williams Wilderness 

Emphasis: Enjoyment of outdoors, learning new skills. 

Contact Person: Mrs. Mona Runka 

8706 Strathearn Dr., Edmonton, Alta. T6C 4C7 
Phone: 469-4936 

Rental: Available occasionally 


CAMP HEALTH-HOPE-HAPPINESS (HE HO HA) 

Capacity: 72 handicapped per session (all ages by camps) 

Rates: $100.00 per 12 day camp 

Location: Lake Isle 

Purpose: To provide a varied program of rehabilitative 

recreation for mobile and handicapped during 
summer. 

Summer program for handicapped 


NAKAMUNCAMP 


Contact Person: Mr. Ralph Jespersen 

Box 179, Stony Plain, Alta. TOE 2G0 
Mr. Ken McLennan 
8704 — 73 Street, Edmonton, Alta. 
Phone: 469-3707 


OFF CAMPUS - ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES 


Sponsor: 

Kind of Camp: 
Season: 

Capacity and Ages: 
Fees: 

Location: 

Contact Person: 

Rental: 


Calgary Board of Education 
Educational/Recreational 
Year round 
83,000 (5-18 years) 

Wide range 

Silver Creek Ranch and others 
J. Reg Houghton 

515 Macleod Trail S.E., Calgary, Alta. 
Site is available for rent. 


33 




ALBERTA 


SKYSTA (Mr. H.J. Kasparsons) Private 
Resident Camp — 8 to 12 years co-ed 
Capacity: 16 (8 boys, 8 girls) 

Location: Condor 

Season: July and August 

Fees: Available upon request 

Emphasis: Working farm camping, hikes, nature, crafts, 

barbeques, farm chores, etc. 

Contact Person: Mr. H.J. Kasparsons 

R.R. 1, Condor, Alberta TOM 0P0 
Phone: 729-2146 


ST. MARY'S CAMP (Salesians of St. John Bosco) 


Capacity: 

Season: 

Fees: 

Location: 

Emphasis: 


Contact Person: 


75 boys, ages 8 to 15 years 
July and August 

$45.00 per week, $80 for 2 weeks 
Alberta Beach 

A Catholic sponsored camp for boys of all 
faiths, which attempts to give boys supervised 
recreation in a wholesome atmosphere. 

Rev. Richard Wanner 

5252 — 137 Ave., Edmonton, Alta. T5A 1C7 
Phone: 476-1946 


Rental: 


Camp available week-ends before and after camp 
season. 


UNIVERSITY OF ALBERTA 

Contact Person: Camping Representative 

Dept, of Outdoor Recreation 
University of Alberta 
Edmonton, Alta. 

THE UNIVERSITY OF CALGARY (School of 

Physical Education) 

Contact Person: Camping Representative 

School of Physical Education 
The University of Calgary 
Calgary, Alta. T2N 1N4 
Phone: 284-5603 


CAMP VALAQUA (Mennonite Conference of Alberta) 


Season: 

Capacity: 

Fees: 

Location: 

Emphasis: 

Contact Person: 


Rental: 


June, July and August 

80 per week — children, youth, family, senior 
citizens 

$20.00 per week, $5.00 per week-end 
Water Valley 

Outdoor experience, coupled with religious 

education 

Mr. Albert Peters 

R.R.1, Carstairs, Alta. TOM 0N0 

Phone: 337-2251 

Available occasionally. 


INDIVIDUAL 


Donna Allred 

10943 — 72 Avenue 

Edmonton, Alberta 

Phone: 435-5483 

Mrs. Marjorie Culler 

Box 17 

Champion, Alberta T0L 0R0 

Phone: 897-3732 

Mr. Burton Demeriez 

15414 — 81 Avenue 

Edmonton, Alberta T5R 3P1 

Phone: 484-2388 

Mr. Morris Fisher 

10810 — 79 Avenue 

Edmonton, Alberta T6E 1S5 

Phone: 433-3011 

Mr. & Mrs. Allan Green 

63 Brantford Cresc. N.W. 

Calgary, Alberta T2L 1N9 

Phone: 289-5807 

Miss Jan James 

10943 — 72 Avenue 

Edmonton, Alberta T6G 0B1 

Phone: 435-5483 

John and Alice Hanlin 

1246 Northmount Dr. N.W. 

Calgary, Alberta T2L 0E2 

Phone: 282-4494 

Deanna M. Irwin 

5353 — 42 Avenue 

Red Deer, Alberta T4N 3A3 



WHISPERING PINES BIBLE CAMP (Southern Ass'n. of 
Regular Baptist Churches of Alberta) 


Capacity: 

Fees: 

Location: 

Season: 

Contact Person: 


Purpose: 


100 campers; ages 9 to family 

$20.00 

Lost Lake, Waiparous Creek, Bow River Forest 
Reserve 

July 1 to September 1 
Mr. R.J. Derksen 
Box 2333, Calgary, Alta. 

Phone: 274-4627 

Teaching campers to know God through Christ 
and the Bible, and to love God and Creation. 


WILDERNESS ENCOUNTER (Boy Scouts of Canada — 

Calgary Region) 

Co-ed teenagers wilderness travel camp 

Location: Chester Lake Wilderness Base (Spray Lakes Area) 

Fees: Available upon request 

Season: July and August 

Objectives: Assist youth in their personal development by 

providing them, in a wilderness setting, with the 
opportunity: 

1) to come to understand and respect the wil¬ 
derness environment, and 

2) in coming to understand the wilderness and 
having experienced its challenges to gain 
confidence by: 

a) further developing wilderness travel skills, 

b) increasing their leadership skills, 

c) coming to understand group dynamics 
and how to work more effectively with 
others. 

Contact Person: Camping Department 

Boy Scouts of Canada 
P.O. Box 3427, Station B 
Calgary, Alta. T2M 4L8 


Y.W.C.A. 


EDMONTON 

Season: 

Kind of Camp: 


Fees: 

Contact Person: 


Y.W.C.A. CAMPS (Edmonton Y.W.C.A.) 

Year round 

A year round educational and recreational pro¬ 
gram of specialty camps, family camps, and 
leadership training 
Available upon request 
Jean Funk 


c/o Y.W.C.A., 10032 - 103 Street 
Edmonton, Alberta T5J 0X4 
Phone: 422-8176 (Ext. 28) 

Rental: Camp site is available for rent year round. 


MEMBERS 

Mr. Nestor N. Kelba 
R.R. No. 2 

Calgary, Alberta T2P 2G5 

Mr. Lou Lanier 
13 Royal Road 
Edmonton, Alberta T6J 2E7 

Miss Ann McKinnon 

No. 703, 9927 - 114 Street 

Edmonton, Alberta T5K 1P8 

Miss Jean Milner 

No. 101, 10125 — 83 Avenue 

Edmonton, Alberta T6E 2C5 

Dr. R. Paasuke 
Box 910 

Olds, Alberta TOM 1P0 

Dr. Donald Smith 
Dept, of Outdoor Recreation 
University of Alberta 
Edmonton, Alberta 

Mr. Ivan V. Somlai 
P.O. Box 4398, Station C, 
Calgary, Alberta T2T 5N2 

Mr. & Mrs. J.G. Spensley 
2402 - 27 Street S.W. 
Calgary, Alberta T3E 2G3 


Phone: 687-2616 


Phone: 482-4798 


Phone: 226-6075 


Phone: Res. 439-1466 
Bus. 432-3611 


Phone: Res. 286-1714 
Bus. 281-2414 


Phone: 249-1817 


34 





ALBERTA 


Mr. Dick Staples 
16516 — 78 Avenue 
Edmonton, Alberta T5R 3E6 

Dr. & Mrs. W.J.D. Stephen 
9421 - 114 Street 
Edmonton, Alberta T5R 0R8 

Miss Joy Finlay 
Site #9, R.R.2 
Sherwood Park, Alberta 

Bob Gardner 

P.O. Box 3247, Station B 
Calgary, Alberta 


Bill Keith 

9525 - 83rd Street 
Phone:487-2111 Edmonton, Alberta 

Hugh Philips 
18 Maple Drive 

Phone: 452-6754 St. Albert, Alberta 

Mary Rempel 

Box 339, Vauxhall, Alberta 

Phone: 467-7649 


Phone: 283-4993 


Phone: 466-3567 


Phone: 459-7136 
Phone: 654-2806 


COMMERCIAL MEMBERS 


ASSOCIATE COMMERCIAL MEMBER 


BRIDGE BRAND FOOD SERVICES LTD. 

1802 Centre Avenue N.E. 

Calgary, Alberta 

Supplying paper and cleaning supplies, 
frozen vegetables, meat and fish, 
fresh produce — total grocery line 

Contact 

Mel Tamagi, Asst. Manager - Grocery Division 


SCOTT NATIONAL CO. LTD. 

Food Supplies & Paper 
Calgary Representative: B. Taylor 

Box 5200, Station "A" 

Calgary, Alberta T2H 2C4 
Telephone: 252-8187 


G UMPE RT'S 
T R I P - L I T E S 

LIGHTWEIGHT FOODS FOR HIKING AND CANOE TRIPS 

Pack: 25 bags per case 

Each bag serves 4 people when reconstituted 
with water. A full range of products available 
for breakfast, lunch and dinner. 

See your Gumpert Representative for a 
Trip-Lite brochure and price list. 

★ Beverages * Biscuits and Cakes 

★ Soups * Desserts and Fruits 

★ Breakfast Dishes * Vegetables 

* Main Dishes 

S. GUMPERT OF CANADA LTD. 

CIE S. GUMPERT DU CANADA LTEE 
31 Brock Avenue, Toronto, Ontario M6K 2L1 


The use of this directory for commercial purposes without the written consent of the Alberta Camping Association is prohibited. 
The information contained herein is supplied by member camps and is correct to the best of our knowledge at the time of publication. 




Photo courtesy Out. Ministry of Industry & Tourism 


35 








B.C. Camping A//ociation 

633 West 8th Avenue 
Vancouver, B.C. V5Z 1C7 
Telephone: 879-5108 


EXECUTIVE 


President 

- 

Rick Ryan 

Finance & Membership 

— Dave Campbell 

Past President 

- 

Grant McKeen 

Accreditation 

— Ron Nelmes 

Vice President 

- 

Diane Black 

Public Relations 

— Doug Soo 

Vice President 

- 

John Hasell 

Outdoor Education 

— Grant McKeen 

Treasurer 

- 

Dave Campbell 

Legislative 

— May Brown 

Secretary 

— 

Eleanor Van der Sman 

Archives 

— Jack Way 



AREA REPRESENTATIVES 


Okanagan 


John Edwards 

Vancouver Island 

— John Durkin 


PREFACE 

This Directory of Camps is compiled by the B.C. Camping Association. Its purpose is to provide essential information about 
member camps located in the province of British Columbia. 

The information found in this Directory has been supplied by member camps and to the best of our knowledge, is correct at 
this time of publication. 

Specific information regarding individual camps can be obtained by contacting the Camp Registrars as listed in this Directory. 
Additional copies may be obtained by calling or writing the B.C. Camping Association. 

The use of this directory for commercial purposes without the written consent of the B.C. Camping Association is prohibited. 


ACCREDITED MEMBER CAMPS 

Throughout the history of the Canadian Camping Association and its associate provincial offices, there has been a constant 
upgrading of camp standards. The B.C. Camping Association's Visitation Committee has spent some time in the following 
listed camps and has found them to meet standards set with regard to safety, health and qualified leadership. 

Camps that are not Accredited by the Association, at this time, may meet the standards but have not participated in this 
programme. 


CAMPS ACCREDITED BY THE B.C. CAMPING ASSOCIATION 


Camp Artaban 

Canadian Outward Bound Mountain School 

Camp Capilano 

Camp Cherith 

Columbia Bible Camp 

Camp Cowichan 

Camp Deka 

Camp Elphinstone 

Evans Lake Conservation Centre 

Camp Fircom 

Gamma Phi Beta Camp 

Camp Hatikvah 


Camp Homewood 
Camp Howdy 
Camp Kopje 
Camp Latona 
Pioneer Pacific 
Camp Potlatch 

Silver Lake Conservation Training 

Strathcona Park Outdoor Education Centre 

Camp Sunrise 

Camp Thunderbird 

Camp Tsoona 

Camp Winfield 

Camp Yawaca 


36 


BRITISH COLUMBIA 


CAMP ARTABAN (Church) 


Location: 
Founded: 
Operated by: 

Address: 

Contact: 

Open to: 
Duration: 

Camp Periods: 
Transportation: 
Medical Staff: 
Counselling Staff: 
Activities: 


Long Bay, Gambier Island, Howe Sound 
1923 

Anglican Church Diocese of New West- 
minster-Camp Artaban Society 
St. Mary's Anglican Church, 

2490 w. 37th Ave., Vancouver 
Kiff Holland, Field Administrator, 

220 w. 8th St., North Vancouver V7M 1 N1 
Children, Adults and Families 
July and August 
Varied 

Harbour Ferries — cost included 

Nurse 

Fifteen 

Swimming, Boating, Sailing, Canoeing, Hik¬ 
ing, Camp Fires, Fishing, Games & Sports, 
Outtripping, Arts & Crafts, Christian Com¬ 
munity living in an outdoor setting. 


THE CANADIAN OUTWARD BOUND 
MOUNTAIN SCHOOL (Agency) 


Location: 

Founded: 

Operated by: 
Address: 

Executive Director: 


Director: 

Open to: 

Duration: 

Camp Periods: 

Transportation: 

Capacity: 

Medical Examination: 
Instructional Staff: 
Activities: 


Keremeos, B.C. 

1969 

Outward Bound Canada 

P.O. Box 279, Keremeos, B.C. VOX 1N0 

Phone: (604) 499-5582 

John Hasell, FRGS ANBIM 

1616 w. 7th Ave., Vancouver, B.C. V6J 1S5 

Phone: (604) 733-9104 

Adrian Todd 

Individuals 16 years and over 
Year Round 
3 and 4 week sessions 
Not Included 

Winter 48 Summer 120 
Required 

Winter 10 Summer 30 
Mountaineering, rock climbing, mountain 
rescue, back-packing. White water canoeing 
& kayaking, river rafting, ski touring, winter 
camping, Solo, Group and Personal Develop¬ 
ment. 


Capacity: 

Counselling Staff: 
Medical Examination: 
Medical Staff: 
Activities: 


100 

30 

Required 

Nurse 

Archery, riflery, hiking, canoeing, swim¬ 
ming, crafts, bicycling. 


COLUMBIA BIBLE CAMP 


Location: 
Founded: 
Operated by: 
Address: 


Open to: 

Transportation: 

Capacity: 

Counselling Staff: 
Medical Examination: 
Medical Staff: 
Activities: 


Cultus Lake 
1958 

Mennonite Brethren Camp Society of B.C. 
c/o Mr. Art Loewen, Chairman, 

47036 Prairie Central Road, 

R.R. No. 1, Chilliwack, B.C. V2P 6H3 
Boys & Girls (grade 4 and up) 

Car 

110 

20 

Questionnaire 

Nurse 

Waterfront, canoeing, swimming, nature lore, 
hiking, games. 


CAMP COWICHAN (Agency) 


Location: 

Operated By: 
Address: 

Camp Administrator 
& Registrar: 

Open To: 

Duration: 

Camp Periods: 

Transportation: 

Capacity: 

Counselling Staff: 
Medical Examination: 
Medical Staff: 
Activities: 


Lake Cowichan, B.C. 

B.C. Lions Society for Crippled Children 
3937 Quadra Street, Victoria, B.C. 

Summer: Lake Cowichan 382-3171 

Mr. R. St. Dennis 

Handicapped; 9 years to adult inclusive 

June to August 

6 sessions of 8 days 

Easter Seal Bus 

40 

19 

Provided 

Nurse 

Swimming, hiking, nature lore, campfires, 
sing-alongs, fishing, boating, games and 
sports, arts and crafts, day out-trips, music, 
drama, 5 movies and church services. 


CAMP CAPILANO (City of Vancouver) 

Location: North Vancouver, B.C. 

Founded: 1951 

Operated By: Vancouver Board of Parks and Public 


Address: 


Director: 

Registrar: 

Open To: 
Duration: 

Camp Period: 
Transportation: 
Capacity: 
Counselling Staff: 


Recreation 

4077 Capilano Park Road 
North Vancouver, B.C. V7R 4L2 
Phone: 987-2087 
Jack F. Way 
Recreation Office, 

Board of Parks and Public Recreation 
All children 7-12 years 
July to August 
2 V 2 days 

Provided from Vancouver Recreation Centres 

24 

4 


Medical Staff: First Aider; Hospital and Doctor on call 

Activities: Introduction to resident camping; hiking; 

fishing; archery; swimming; campfires; 
games; etc. 

Environmental studies for schools, Septem¬ 
ber to June. 


CAMP CHERITH (Church) 


Location: 
Founded: 
Operated By: 
Director: 


Registrar: 


Open To: 

Camp Periods: 

Duration: 

Transportation: 


Near Cultus Lake, B.C. 

1962 

Pioneer Girls 
V. Listoen 

6454 - 144th St., Surrey, B.C. 
Phone: 594-5745 
Mrs. D. Rowan 

13709 — 56A Avenue, Surrey, B.C. 
Phone: 594-4957 
Girls, grades 3 to 12 

1 week 

2 weeks 
Not provided 


CAMP DEKA (Independent) 


Location: 
Founded: 
Operated By: 
Address: 


Registrar & 

Director: 

Open To: 

Duration: 

Camp Period: 

Transportation: 

Capacity: 

Counselling Staff: 
Medical Examination: 
Medical Staff: 
Activities: 


Deka Lake, South Cariboo 
1961 

May Brown 

4036 W. 30th Avenue, 

Vancouver, B.C. V6S 1X5 
Summer: Camp Deka, Lone Butte, B.C. 
Phone: Radio-Telephone 

May Brown 

Boys 8-15 years 
July to August 
2 weeks 

Via Greyhound Bus to 100 Mile House 
48 
16 

Questionnaire 

First Aid Attendant or Nurse, Doctor on call 
Nature awareness, living in a wilderness set¬ 
ting, riding, hiking, out-tripping, canoeing, 
swimming, crafts, kayaking. 


CAMP ELPHINSTONE (Agency) 


Location: 
Founded: 
Operated By: 
Address: 


Director & Registrar: 
Open To: 

Duration: 

Camp Periods: 

Transportation: 

Capacity: 

Counselling Staff: 
Medical Examination: 
Medical Staff: 
Activities: 


Gibsons, B.C. 

1907 

Y.M.C.A. of Greater Vancouver 
6137 Cambie St., Vancouver, B.C. V5Z 3B2 
Phone: 324-2261 
Summer: Gibsons, B.C. 

Phone: 886-2025 
Mr. R.L. Bowering 
Boys 8-15 years 
All summer 
2 weeks 
Not included 
136 
40 

Questionnaire 
1 nurse 

Waterfront skills, out-tripping, sailing, canoe¬ 
ing, special events, campfires, camp crafts. 


37 



BRITISH COLUMBIA 


EVANS LAKE CONSERVATION CENTRE (Agency) 


Location: 
Founded: 
Operated By: 
Address: 


Director: 
Registrar: 
Open To: 


Duration: 

Camp Period: 

Transportation: 

Capacity: 

Counselling Staff: 
Medical Examination: 
Activities: 


9 miles north of Squamish, B.C. 

1960 

Canadian Forestry Association of B.C. 

No. 410 — 1200 W. Pender Street 
Vancouver, B.C. V6E 2S9 
Phone: 683-7591 

Summer: General Delivery, Squamish, B.C. 

Phone: 898-3832 
Dave Campbell 

Canadian Forestry Association of B.C. 

Junior Forest Wardens, Girl Forest Guards 
and others (10 - 16 years) interested in con¬ 
servation and recreation programs 
July to August 
8 day sessions 
Provided from Vancouver 
78 
12 

Not required 

Conservation, swimming, canoeing, sailing, 
fishing, out-trips, fire prevention 


CAMP FIRCOM (Church) 


Location: 
Founded: 
Operated By: 
Address: 


Administrator: 

Registrar: 

Open To: 

Duration: 

Camp Periods: 

Transportation: 

Capacity: 

Counselling Staff: 
Medical Examination: 
Medical Staff: 
Activities: 


Gambier Island, B.C. 

1923 

First United Church (in summer) 

320 E. Hastings Street 
Vancouver, B.C. V6A 1P4 
Phone: 681-8365 

Ross Henry (on site) c/o radio-phone 
Mrs. E. Francis 
Children, adults, families 
July - August 
1 week to 2 weeks 
Charter Boat 
100 

12 paid staff — 60 volunteers 
Required 

Nurse, Doctor on call 

Group experience, Christian community liv¬ 
ing in an outdoor setting, boating, hiking, 
swimming, out-trips, crafts, out-tripping by 
whaler boats. 


GAMMA PHI BETA CAMP (Private) 


Location: 
Founded: 
Operated By: 

Address: 


Contact: 
Open To: 


Duration: 

Camp Periods: 

Transportation: 

Capacity: 

Counselling Staff: 
Medical Examination: 
Medical Staff: 
Activities: 


West Sechelt, B.C. 

1932 

Gamma Phi Beta, International Sorority, 
Vancouver Alumnae 
8012 Joffre Avenue, 

S. Burnaby, B.C. V5J 3L1 
Phone: 434-1298 

Summer: R.R. 1, West Sechelt, B.C. 

Mrs. W.J. Robertson (Beth) 

Underprivileged girls 9-12 years 
All campers on referral from Metro-Health 
School Nurses 
July - August 
14 day sessions 
Provided 
36 
11 
Yes 

Clinic Hospital in Sechelt 
Relaxing holiday, beach activities, no out- 
tripping, hired puppet shows, including work 
shop, government marine biologist and forest 
expert for counsellor training. 


CAMP HATIKVAH (Agency) 


Location: 
Founded: 
Operated By: 
Address: 


Director: 

Registrar: 

Open To: 
Duration & 
Camp Periods: 


Oyama, B.C. 

1954 

Zionist Organization of Canada 
950 West 41 st Avenue 
Vancouver, B.C. V5Z 2N7 
Phone: 266-5366 
N. Bent 

Mrs. M. Weinstein 
Girls and boys 8 - 16 years 
Two 3 % week sessions 
One 7 week session 

One 2 week session — Canadian Diabetic 
Association 


Transportation: Airplane and bus 


Counselling Staff: 
Capacity: 

Medical Examination: 
Medical Staff: 
Activities: 


32 

160 

Required 

Nurse; Doctor on call 

Jewish culture, education and religion, 
general camping program with emphasis on 
waterfront activities. 


CAMP HOMEWOOD (Agency) 


Location: 

Founded: 

Operated By: 

Address: 

Director: 

Registrar: 

Open To: 

Duration: 

Camp Periods: 

Transportation: 

Capacity: 

Counselling Staff: 
Medical Examination: 
Medical Staff: 
Activities: 


Quadra Island, Heriot Bay, B.C. 

1948 

Pacific Coast Childrens' Mission 

Box 40, Heriot Bay, B.C. V0P 1 HO 

Phone: 285-3483 

Alf Bayne 

Mrs. R. Gamache 

All (ages 8 - teens) — By registration only 
July - August 
9 days 

Provided from the Quadra Ferry to camp 
Harbour camps 65 — Woodsman camps 30 
Mountain trips — 10 per trip 
25 

Not required 

Registered Nurse, Doctor can be called 
Crafts, outdoor games, horseback riding, 
water skiing, sailing, riflery, archery, camp 
craft, out-tripping. 


CAMP HOWDY (Agency) 


Location: 
Founded: 
Operated By: 
Address: 


Director & Registrar: 
Open To: 

Duration: 

Camp Periods: 

Transportation: 

Capacity: 

Counselling Staff: 
Medical Examination: 
Medical Staff: 
Activities: 


loco, B.C. 

1946 

Y.M.C.A. of Greater Vancouver 
6137 Cambie Street 
Vancouver, B.C. V5Z 3B2 
Phone: 324-2261 
Paul Dampier 
7-13 years (Co-Ed) 

All summer 

5 day camps (Monday to Friday) 

Not included 
50 
8 

Questionnaire 
First Aid Attendant 

Waterfront, archery, campfire, games, crafts, 
out-tripping. 


CAMP KOPJE (Agency) 


Location: 

Founded: 

Operated By: 

Address: 

Director: 

Open To: 

Duration: 

Camp Periods: 

Transportation: 

Capacity: 

Counselling Staff: 
Medical Examination: 
Medical Staff: 
Activities: 


Okanagan Lake, Winfield, B.C. 

1969 

Youth Resources 
Box 248, Winfield, B.C. 

Phone: 766-2956 
John Edwards 

Youth experiencing problems 
Co-Ed — 13 - 18 years (referrals only) 

Year round 
Year round 
Plane, bus, car 
24 
13 

Required 

Full-time registered nurse 

Out-tripping, swimming, boating, sailing, arts 

and crafts and voyageuring. 


CAMP LATONA (Agency) 


Location: 
Founded: 
Operated By: 
Address: 


Registrar: 

Open To: 

Duration: 

Camp Periods: 
Transportation: 
Capacity: 

Counselling Staff: 
Medical Examination: 
Medical Staff: 
Activities: 


Gambier Island, B.C. 

1959 

Catholic Youth Activities 
650 Richards Street 
Vancouver, B.C. V6B 3A3 
Phone: 681-3729 

Diane Black, Executive Director, Catholic 

Youth Activities 

Boys and girls 8 - 15 years 

June 28 to August 23 

2 week sessions 

Included 

125 

Total staff 37 

Parents' certificate of good health 
Nurse 

Waterfront skills, camp craft, arts and crafts, 
out-tripping. 


38 



BRITISH COLUMBIA 


PIONEER PACIFIC (Church) 


Location: 
Operated By: 
Address: 


Open To: 

Duration: 

Transportation: 

Capacity: 

Medical Examination: 
Medical Staff: 
Counselling Staff: 
Activities: 


Thetis Island 

Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship 
Thetis Island, B.C. Phone: 246-9613 
or: Box 33829, Station D 

Vancouver, B.C. 

Boys and girls 8-18 years 
Co-Ed 15-18 years; Families 
June to September and weekends 
Provided 
115 

Questionnaire 
Nurse, Doctor on call 
25 

Swimming, boating, hiking, sailing, canoeing, 
campcrafts, rapelling, archery, riflery, skits 
& talent programmes, outtripping - balanced 
Christian community living with Bible study. 


CAMP POTLATCH (Agency) 


Location: 
Founded: 
Operated By: 
Address: 


Director: 

Registrar: 

Open To: 

Duration: 

Camp Periods: 

Transportation: 

Capacity: 

Counselling Staff: 
Medical Examination: 
Medical Staff: 

Activities: 


Howe Sound, B.C. 

1945 

Boys' & Girls' Clubs of Greater Vancouver 
633 West 8th Avenue 
Vancouver, B.C. V5Z 1C7 
Phone: 879-5108 

Summer: Britannia Beach P.O., B.C. 

Phone: Radio-Phone 

Doug Soo 
Mrs. M. Ellison 
Boys 8 to 18 years 
July - August 
2 week sessions 
Included 
130 
40 

Provided 

Nurse on site. Doctor and Hospital 
in Squamish 

Out-tripping, waterfront, archery, riflery, 
campfires, games, crafts, canoeing, wilder¬ 
ness tripping and leadership training. 


CAMP SUNRISE (Church) 


Location: 
Operated By: 
Address: 


Director & Registrar: 
Open To: 

Duration: 

Camp Periods: 

Transportation: 

Capacity: 

Counselling Staff: 
Medical Examination: 
Medical Staff: 
Activities: 


Hopkins Landing, B.C. 

The Salvation Army 
301 E. Hastings Street 
Vancouver, B.C. V6A 1P3 
Phone: 682-2841 
Summer: Hopkins Landing, B.C. 

Phone: 866-7232 or 866-2981 
Captain Lome Dixon 

Scouting, guiding, senior citizens, under¬ 
privileged, (multi purpose) 

June 15 - September 1 
1 week 

Information on application 
200 
30 

Health statement from parents 
Registered Nurse 

Hiking, boating, swimming, fishing, sports, 
outdoor camping, tenting, spiritual emphasis. 


CAMP THUNDERBIRD (Agency) 


Location: 

Founded: 

Operated By: 
Address: 

Director & Registrar: 
Open To: 

Duration: 

Camp Periods: 

Transportation: 

Capacity: 

Counselling Staff: 
Medical Examination: 
Medical Staff: 
Activities: 


Sooke, B.C. 

1935 

Victoria Y.M.-Y.W.C.A. 

880 Courtney Street, Victoria, B.C. 
Phone: 306-7511 (all year) 

John Durkin 
9-16 year olds 
July - August 
Up to 1 month 
Provided 
90 
15 
Yes 

Nurse on duty 

Out-tripping, canoeing, swimming, 
wilderness camping, camp craft. 


hiking. 


SILVER LAKE CONSERVATION TRAINING CAMP 
(Agency) 


Location: 
Founded: 
Operated By: 
Address: 


Director: 

Registrar: 

Open To: 

Duration: 

Camp Periods: 

Transportation: 

Capacity: 

Counselling Staff: 
Medical Examination: 
Medical Staff: 
Activities: 


On Silver Lake (10 miles west of Peachland) 
1970 

Canadian Forestry Association of B.C. 

503 Sutherland Avenue, Kelowna, B.C. 
Phone: 762-0430 
Summer: Phone 2K-222 
C.W. Gray 

Canadian Forestry Association of B.C., 
Kelowna 

Conservation Education, Junior Forest War¬ 
dens, school groups and others 
May to October 
1 week 

Not provided 
40 

1 to 8 ratio 
Questionnaire 
First Aider 

Canoeing, hiking, out-tripping, forestry, 
obstacle course, rifle safety. 


STRATHCONA PARK OUTDOOR EDUCATION 


CENTRE (Independent) 


Location: 
Operated by: 
Address: 

Director: 

Open to: 

Duration: 

Camp Period: 

Capacity: 

Staff: 

Activities: 


Campbell River, Vancouver Island 

Jim and Myrna Boulding 

Box 2160, Campbell River, B.C. 

Phone: Campbell River Radio Operator 

Jim Boulding 

All — by registration 

All year 

According to length of course 
120 

Number according to type of course 
(Accredited site only): back packing, boat¬ 
ing, canoeing, skiing, fishing, kayaking, 
orienteering, mountaineering, skindiving, 
weaving. West Coast Adventure, wilderness 
survival, wood carving. 


CAMPTSOONA (Agency) 


Location: 

Founded: 

Operated By: 
Address: 

Director: 

Open To: 

Camp Periods: 
Duration: 

Capacity: 

Counselling Staff: 
Medical Examination: 
Activities: 


Rosedale, B.C. 

1961 

Girl Guides of Canada, B.C. Council 

No. 85 — 553 Granville Street 

Vancouver, B.C. V6C 1Y6 

Mrs. J.W. Feltnes Phone: 688-7707 

Girl Fuides, Girl Scouts, Brownies 

Varies 

Year round 

Longhouse 42 - Lodge 28 - Camp sites 120 

Varies 

Yes 

Swimming, hiking, climbing, sports. 


CAMP WINFIELD (Agency) 

Location: Winfield, B.C. 

Operated By: B.C. Lions Society for Crippled Children 

Address: 171 West 6th Avenue 

Vancouver, B.C. V5Y 1K5 
Phone: 873-1865 


Administrator: 

Open to: 

Duration: 

Camp Periods: 

Transportation: 

Capacity: 

Counselling Staff: 
Medical Examination: 
Medical Staff: 
Activities: 


Summer: R.R.1, Sorrento, B.C. 

Mr. L. Grath, R.R. 1, Sorrento, B.C. 
Handicapped: 9 years to adult inclusive 
May to August 
1 to 2 weeks 
Not provided 
40 
16 

Required 

1 Nurse, 1 Assistant Nurse 
Arts, crafts, horseback riding, fishing, boat¬ 
ing, hiking, swimming in pool. 


39 



BRITISH COLUMBIA 



CAMP YAWACA (Agency) 


Location: 
Founded: 
Operated By: 
Address: 


Saltspring Island, B.C. 

1963 

Y.W.C.A. of Greater Vancouver 
580 Burrard Street 
Vancouver, B.C. V6C 2K9 
Phone: 683-2531 


Summer: R.R. 1, Fulford Harbour 
Saltspring Island, B.C. 

Phone: 112-653-4221 
Registrar: Mrs. Erna Woods 

Director: Sharon Brown 

Open To: Girls 9-15 years; Jr. C.l.T. leadership train¬ 

ing (girls 15 - 18 years finished grade 10) 


Duration: 

Camp Periods: 

Transportation: 

Capacity: 

Counselling Staff: 
Medical Examination: 
Medical Staff: 

Activities: 


July to August 
2 weeks 

Provided from Vancouver, if desired 
54 

16 counsellors and 7 assistants 
Questionnaire 

First Aider, infirmary, doctor on call, 
hospital near 

Camp craft, swimming, canoeing, archery, 
out-tripping, outdoor gym, council ring, 
chapel, hiking, star gazing, singing. 


PERSONAL MEMBERSHIPS 


Ms. Nan Baxter, 

Program Assistant, 

Kelowna Recreation Dept., 
City Hall, 1435 Water St., 
Kelowna 

Mr. Jim Boulding, 

Box 2160, Campbell River 

Mr. Vincent Capri, 

1240 Yates St., Victoria 

Mr. Pat Connell, 

719 W. 16th Ave., 
Vancouver V5Z ISO 

Mr. Ted Dinsley, 

Box 4, Peachland 
VOH 1X0 

Mr. B.J. Douglas, 

Glenmore Lodge, Aviemore, 
Inverness-shire, Scotland 

Miss Jennifer Dunn, 

4088 Maple Crescent, 
Vancouver V6J 4B2 

Rev. Bill Dyck, 

Box 80267, Burnaby 

Ms. Judi Evans, 

1930 Leighton Rd., Victoria 

Miss Marilyn Fane, 

692 Burrard St., 

Vancouver V6C 2L1 


Ms. Rosemary Greene, 

136 E. 62nd Ave., Vancouver 

Ms. Linda Haiverson, 

4849 Marguerite St., Vancouver 

Mr. James B. Hardwik, 

5362 Laburnum Street, 
Vancouver V6M 3S6 

Mr. John Hasell, 

1616 W. 7th Avenue, 

Vancouver V6J 1S5 

Mrs. W. Haynes, 

United Church of Canada, 

505 Dunsmuir Street, 
Vancouver V6B 1Y5 

Miss Gloria Kotyh, 

287 Bernard Ave., Kelowna 

Ms. Judy Langdon, 

1972 Ogden Ave., Vancouver 

Mrs. Lonezo Lepore, 

26 W. 40th Ave., Vancouver 

Ms. Sharon Lough, 

3694 Sunset Blvd., 

North Vancouver 

Miss Hon Low, 

722 E. Pender Street, 

Vancouver V6A 1V7 


Mr. Grant McKeen, 

2952 Fleet St., Coquitlam 

Mrs. Jean Miles, 

Program Assistant, 

Kelowna Recreation Dept., 

City Hall, 1435 Water St., 
Kelowna 

Mrs. Silvia Miller, 

Box 1839, Hope VOX 1 L0 

Miss Mary Morel, 

Royal Life Saving Society, 

2556 Highbury Street, 
Vancouver V6R 3G7 

Mr. Bruce O'Neil, 

859 Drayton Street, 

North Vancouver V7L 2C2 

Miss Linda Palin, 

No. 204 — 4330 Maywood St., 
Burnaby V5H 2J7 

Mr. G.M. Peterson, 

1137 Athol Street, 

Regina, Sask. S4T 3C3 

Mr. Paul Pincott, 

1115 W. 58th Ave., Vancouver 

Pat Russell, 

1626 W. 58th Avenue, 
Vancouver V6P 1W9 

R.L. Ryan, 

c/o 633 W. 8th Ave., Vancouver 


Mr. R.W. Shaw, 

No. 306 — 1705 3rd Ave., 

Prince George V2L 3G7 

Mr. Doug Soo, 

c/o 633 W. 8th Avenue, 

Vancouver V5Z 1C7 

Ms. Irene Sowa, 

Box 2291, Smithers 

Mousi Tchir, 

5336 Sherbrooke St., Vancouver 

Rev. F.W. Thirkell, 

1014 Clements Avenue, 

North Vancouver V7Q 2L4 

Mrs. E. Van der Sman, 

171 W. 6th Ave., Vancouver 

Mr. F .E. Wade 

171 W. 6th Ave., Vancouver 

Ms. Anne Whittle, 

5309 Marguerite Street, 
Vancouver V6M 3K5 

Ms. Judy Winkelman, 

2614 Parker Street, 

Vancouver V5K 2T4 

Mr. William Wood, 

Box 4082, Station A, 

Victoria V8X 3X4 


Photo courtesy Outward Bound 



40 








fflcinitobci Camping A//ociotion 

186 Furby Street 
Winnipeg, Manitoba R3C 2A7 
(Area code 204) 772-0745 

1975 EXECUTIVE 


Past President: 

President: 

Vice-President: 

Secretary: 

Treasurer 


Standards Chairman: Brian Law 
(Manitou) 

Membership Chairman: Joy Ooto 

(Manitoba Pioneer Camp) 


Robert Douglas 
(Wannakumbac) 

Marvin Wall 
(Echo Bay) 

Punch Jackson 
(Camp Stevens) 

Donna Masson 
(Association Office) 

Cliff Fryers 

(Norwood Tent & Awning Co. 


Leadership Training 
Chairman: 

Ou tdoor Educa tion 
Chairman: 

Archives Chairman: 

Ltd.) 


Shanley Parkinson 
(United Church of Canada) 

David Loewen 
(Arnes) 

Marion Searles 
(Caddy Lake) 


WHAT IT IS . . . 


THE MANITOBA CAMPING ASSOCIATION consists of many different types of camps, persons and agencies that have 
banded together to help one another in their camping programs. Each year they elect an executive and charge this body 
with the responsibility of administrating the affairs of the MCA to the benefit of all its members. The MCA is a provincial 
section of the Canadian Camping Association. MCA is the voice of camping in Manitoba to the government and to the 
general public. 

WHAT "ACCREDITATION" MEANS 


MCA since its inception has continually encouraged camps to strive for excellency in all aspects of their camping operations. 
In 1969, MCA established a program of DESIRABLE PRACTICES and STANDARDS for camps, leading to official accredi¬ 
tation. As a result of the program, some member camps have been granted accreditation by MCA and the Canadian Camping 
Association. 

The primary objectives of the MCA standards program are to assist camps in making improvements in their present operations 
and to ensure that participants receive a valuable camping experience. 

The camp holding a certificate of accreditation is operating within the standards set forth by MCA and the provincial health 
regulations. To retain certification the camp is re-visited at least once every three years by the MCA Standards Committee 
visitation team. 


To the campers, and parents who send their children to camp, accreditation assures them the following: 

a) a competent trained staff working under supervision 

b) facilities which are conducive to camping programs 

c) food services and health practices which meet provincial health regulations 

d) the implementation of safety practices 

e) an environment providing opportunity for wholesome growth and creative adventure 

f) an effectively administrated camp. 

As the MCA standards program is being implemented over a period of several years, some camps have not yet been able to 
avail themselves of this accreditation. The public can be assured that many of the present non-accredited camps are taking 
the necessary steps to be accredited. 


DAY CAMPS 
°t Camp Manitou 
t Camp Playmore 

RESIDENT CAMPS 

t Anglican Camp Wapatek 
°t Camp Arnes 
°t B'nai B'rith Camp 
t Caddy Lake 

Canadian Red Cross Aquatic School 
Canadian Sunday School Mission 
1 Carberry Bible Camp 
t 2 Gimli Bible Camp 
Conference of Mennonites 

1 Camp Assiniboia 

2 Camp Koinonia 

3 Moose Lake Camp 


INDEX OF CAMPS 

Diocese of Brandon, Memorial Camp 
t Echo Bay Lodge 
Fresh Air Experiences 
Husavick Children's Camp 
Knowles School for Boys Camp 
° Lake Nutimik Baptist Camp 

The Society for Crippled Children & 
Adults Lakeside Camp 
t Luther Village 
Manitoba 4-H Club Camps 
°t Manitoba Pioneer Camps 
t Massad 

Camp Notre Dame 
Provincial Recreation Leadership 
Training Centre 
° Red Rock Bible Camp 
Camp Seton 


tDenotes "Accredited Camp" 
oDenotes "Outdoor Education Available" 

Sunrise Lutheran Camp 
t Ukranian Park Camp 
United Church of Canada 

1 Red Rock United Church Camp 

2 Camp Totogan 

3 Wellman Lake Camp 
°t Camp Wannakumbac 

t Winkler Bible Camp 
° Y.M.C.A. Camping Department 
t 1 Camp Stephens — Boys 
t 2 Camp Stephens — Girls 

3 Counsellor Training Program 

4 Voyageurs and Serendipity 


41 


MANITOBA 


DAY CAMPS 


ot CAMP MANITOU 
(Y.M.C.A.) 

Founded: 1929 

Capacity: 350 day campers 

Session: Three 10*day sessions July-August 

Fee: $53.00 per session 

Location: Lot 87 & 88 Parish of St. Charles 

Contact: Bob Paterson 

301 Vaughan St., Winnipeg, R3B 2N7 
942-8157 

Purpose: Camp Manitou is a place where "people things" occur— 

where an understanding of man as a part of nature is 
of primary importance; a place for FUN . . . with a pur¬ 
pose. 


t CAMP PLAYMORE 
(Y.M.H.A.) 

Capacity: 120 co-ed 

Session: 3 weeks July-August 

Fee: Available upon request 

Location: R.M. of St. Andrews 

Contact: Avrim Namak 

370 Hargrave St., Winnipeg R3B 2K1 
947-0601 

Purpose: To provide an enjoyable outdoor experience in a wood¬ 

land setting. Trained staff assist campers in learning the 
social skills required to play, work, and live in small 
groups. Program emphasizes learning and safely imple¬ 
menting camping skills. 


RESIDENT CAMPS 


t ANGLICAN CAMP WAPATEK 
(The Anglican Church of Canada) 

Founded: 1923 

Capacity: 50 

Session: 12 days July-August 

Fee: Sliding Scale 

Location: Kenora, Ontario 

Contact Mr. Harvey Henderson 

1174 Magnus Ave., Winnipeg, R2X 0N6 
582-5952 

Purpose: To provide, within a Christian community of com¬ 

petent staff, for growth of persons in the Christian 
way of life and opportunities to develop skills in the 
out-of-doors. 


ot CAMP ARNES 

(Lake Winnipeg Mission Camp Society Inc.) 

Founded: 1949 

Capacity: 150 

Session: 1-2 weeks year-round 

Fee: Approximately $37.00 per week 

Location: 70 miles north of Winnipeg on Lake Winnipeg 

Contact: The Secretary 

1151 Henderson Highway, Winnipeg, Manitoba 
338-9325 

Purpose: To help children, youth and adults develop biblical 

attitudes to all of life, to develop their potential as 
individuals and to discover the joy of living. The pro¬ 
gram is camper-counsellor centered and gives oppor¬ 
tunity for training in various outdoor skills. 


ot B'NAI B'RITH CAMP 
(Y.M.H.A.) 

Founded: 1926 

Capacity: 120 

Session: 2 weeks-regular; 3 and 4 weeks-advanced. July-August 

Fee: Available upon request 

Location: Towne Island, Lake of the Woods 

Contact: Mel Horstein 

370 Hargrave, Winnipeg R3B 2K1 
947-0601 

Purpose: Camp provides a means for people to learn about and 

understand their natural and man-made environments, 
to develop relationships with others and for the indi¬ 
vidual to grow and mature. Campers participate in 
planned programs developed with their counsellors. 

t CADDY LAKE 
(Girl Guides of Canada) 

Founded: 1949 

Capacity: 100 

Session: 8-day and 10-day sessions July and August 

Fee: $68 for 8-days (girls 7-10 years) 

$85 for 10-days (girls 10-15 years) 

Location: Whiteshell 

Contact: Debbie Haynes 

200-267 Edmonton St., Winnipeg R3C 1S2 
942-2458 

Purpose: To provide opportunity for girls to develop as indivi¬ 

duals and as responsible group members. Activities are 
based on the Promise and the Law; to provide an 
enjoyable outdoor experience. 


CANADIAN RED CROSS AQUATIC SCHOOL 
(Canadian Red Cross) 

Founded: 1966 

Capacity: 80 

Session: 7 days 

Fee: $30.00 plus accommodation 

Contact: Mr. Jim Fenske 

226 Osborne St. N., Winnipeg R3C 1V4 
772-2551 

Purpose: To train persons with the required prerequisites in 

aquatic leadership. Candidates may apply for the Red 
Cross Leader, Red Cross Royal Life Instructor or 
National Lifeguard Certificate. 

CANADIAN SUNDAY SCHOOL MISSION 

Contact: Lome Everett 

200-189 Henderson Highway 
Winnipeg R2L 1 L7 
667-8311 

(1) CARBERRY BIBLE CAMP 

Founded: 1961 

Capacity: 80 

Session: 6 days Ju Iy 

Fee: $22.00 

Location: 6 miles east Carberry junction on Trans-Canada Hwy. 

Contact: Abe Wiebe 

Box 430, Carberry R0K OHO. Phone: 305, Ring 3 
Purpose: To provide an all-round camping experience for chil¬ 

dren, young people and adults and endeavouring to 
help them socially, physically and spiritually. 

t(2) GIMLI BIBLE CAMP 


Founded: 

1928 

Capacity: 

85 

Session: 

6 days July-August 

Fee: 

$33.00 

Location: 

2 miles north of Gimli on Hwy #9 

Contact: 

Randy Decker 

35-45 Weatherstone PI., Winnipeg R2J 2S8 

253-1583 

Purpose: 

To provide an all-round camping experience for chil¬ 
dren, young people and adults and endeavouring to 
help them socially, physically and spiritually. 

CONFERENCE OF MENNONITES 

Contact: 

Camp Secretary 

202-1483 Pembina Hwy. 

Winnipeg R3T 2C9 

475-3550 

Purpose: 

To provide a setting where the camper may have an 
educational, recreational, social, and spiritual experi¬ 
ence. To help campers sense and respond to the living 
presence of God as seen in Jesus and as found in 
relationships with other people. 

(1) CAMP 

ASSINIBOIA 

Founded: 

1949 

Capacity: 

100 

Session: 

1 week July-August 

Fee: 

$35.00 and $30.00 for each additional camper in one 
family 

Location: 

Approx. b'A miles west of Headingly on #1 Hwy. to 
Prov. Road #241, then 2 Vt miles south. 


42 



MANITOBA 


(2) CAMP KOINONIA 

hounded: 1966 

Capacity: 60 

Session: 1 week July-August 

Fee: $35.00 and $30.00 for each additional camper in one 

family. 

Location: 9 miles south of Boissevain on Hwy. #10 


(3) MOOSE LAKE CAMP 

Founded: 1957 

Capacity: 46 

Session: 1 week July-August 

Fee: $35.00 and $30.00 for each additional camper in one 

family. 

Location: Southeast of Steinbach on #12 for 66 miles; north of 

Sprague 23 miles. 


KNOWLES SCHOOL FOR BOYS CAMP 


DIOCESE 

(Anglican 

Founded: 

Capacity: 

Session: 

Fee: 

Location: 

Contact: 


Purpose: 


Capacity: 

Session: 

Fee: 

Location: 

Contact: 


Purpose: 


Capacity: 

Session: 

Fee: 

Location: 

Contact: 


Purpose: 


Capacity: 

Session: 

Fee: 

Location: 

Contact: 


Purpose: 


Founded: 

Capacity: 

Session: 

Location: 

Contact: 


Purpose: 


1967 

24 

2 weeks July-August 
Big Whiteshell Lake 
Don McClintock 

2065 Henderson Hwy., Winnipeg R2G 1P7 
339-1951 

For boys in placement at Knowles School to improve 
the functioning of the boys in numerous settings by 
means of increased awareness of self, development of 
confidence, resourcefulness and an improved self image. 
For boys to be able to control their own behaviour and 
appropriately solve their problems by looking at the 
alternatives and choosing the best one. 


OF BRANDON, MEMORIAL CAMP 
Church of Canada, Diocese of Brandon) 

1935 

64 

7 days June-August 
Inquire 

West side Clear Lake, Crawford Park 
Rev. Calderwood 

341-13th Street, Brandon R7A 4P8 
727-7550 

To foster a love of God and his Son, Jesus Christ, 
through the experience of living and working together 
in a Christian atmosphere emphasizing the beauty of 
God's creation in nature around Clear Lake with a 
special interest in canoeing. 


t ECHO BAY LODGE 
(Greater Wpg. Youth for Christ Inc.) 

Founded: 1966 

40 

8 days May-October; 3-4 days January-March 
$70.00 for 8 days 
Echo Bay, Lake of the Woods 
Marvin Wall 

Box 385, Winnipeg R3C 2H6 
783-7206 

(Lifeline) To combat delinquency and teach moral and 
spiritual values. To reach the whole teen; mentally, 
physically, socially and spiritually. Working with un¬ 
loved, unwanted and neglected teen. (Campus Life) To 
emphasize the need of a balanced life of the high 
school student and to the building of spiritual values 
and principles that add to their total development as 
a person. 


FRESH AIR EXPERIENCES 

Founded: 1972 

Unlimited 

Year round education — cross-country skiing, kayak¬ 
ing, backpacking, bicycle touring 
Varies according to programme 
1900 Pembina Hwy. 

Lyle Wilson 

1900 Pembina Hwy., Winnipeg R3T 2G2 
269-9896 

Fitness recreation through self-propelled sports. 


HUSAVICK CHILDREN'S CAMP 

(Workers' Benevolent Assoc, and Assoc, of United 

Ukranian Canadians) 

Founded: 1952 

50 

3 weeks 
$30-$35 

WBA Summer Camp, Husavick, Manitoba 
M. Mokry 

595 Pritchard Ave., Winnipeg R2W 2K4 
582-9269 

Provide facilities for children during summer months 
in a camp. 


Purpose: 


Capacity: 

Session: 

Fee: 

Location: 

Contact: 


Purpose: 


o LAKE NUTIMIK BAPTIST CAMP 
(North American Baptist Conference) 

Founded: 1954 

Capacity: 100 

Session: one week July-August; year-round for weekends. 

Fee: $20.00/week 

Location: Whiteshell 

Contact: William Sturhann 

184 Wharton Blvd., Winnipeg R2Y 0T1 
889-7030 

To own and operate, to construct, build, maintain and 
improve a Christian Camp and camp facilities for the 
educational benefit of the Society (and other organi¬ 
zations) with studies in Bible and ecology. 

LAKESIDE CAMP 

(The Society for Crippled Children and Adults) 

Founded: 1921 

88 

Three 2-week sessions June-July 
To be discussed with agency 
11 miles north of Gimli 
Ulrich Woelcke/Laurie Beachell 
825 Sherbrook, Winnipeg R3A 1M5 
786-5601 (212) 

To provide physically-handicapped people with experi¬ 
ences they would otherwise not have: group-living, 
group projects with emphasis on accepting responsi¬ 
bility, development of latent (or obvious) talents 
(drama, sports, crafts, etc.) outtripping, overnight 
camping and having a plain good time. 

t LUTHER VILLAGE 
(Lutheran Church Camping Association) 

Founded: 1965 

Capacity: 75 summer, 20 winter 

Session: 6 days year-round 

Fee: Available upon request 

Location: Kenora, Ontario 

Contact: Rev. Alfred B. Sander 

Box 2040, Kenora, Ontario 
837-5559 Winnipeg 

Purpose: To provide a unique opportunity for the camper to 

realize an intensive and gladdening experience in his 
relationship to God—to the Church—to the world of 
nature—to self and to his followers. 

MANITOBA 4-H CLUB CAMPS 
(Manitoba Department of Agriculture and 
Manitoba 4-H Council) 

Founded: 1920 

850 

6-10 days July-August 
$10.00 
Bill Martins 

1445 Pembina Hwy., Winnipeg R3T 2C4 
475-2700 

To foster self-development, an awareness of others and 
an appreciation of man's unique relationship to the 
out-of-doors and the relationship each camper has to 
the environment. 


Capacity: 

Session: 

Fee: 

Contact: 


Purpose: 


ot MANITOBA PIONEER CAMPS 

(Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship of Canada) 

Founded: 1943 

Capacity: 100 

Session: 14 days May-August 

Fee: $150 

Location: Shoal Lake, Ontario 


43 







MANITOBA 


Contact: Camp Director 

217-267 Edmonton St., Winnipeg R3C 1S2 
942-3002 

Purpose: To offer skill training for wilderness adventure with an 

emphasis on the initiative and leadership of counselling 

staff to demonstrate the reality of Christian faith in 
relation to such experiences together. 

tMASSAD 

Founded: 1953 

Capacity: 220 

Session: July-August 

Fee: Available upon request 

Location: Gimli, Manitoba 

Contact: Mr. Jack Boroditsky 

405-225 Arby Bay, Winnipeg R2G 0P1 
338-3863 

Purpose: The transmission of Jewish culture through the medium 

of the Hebrew language. The activities are designed to 
give an intellectual stimulation and to contribute to the 
growth of physical skills, social awareness and religious 
understanding. 

CAMP NOTRE DAME 
(La Paroisse de la Cathedrale) 

Capacity : 72 

Session: 10 days 

Fee: 

Location: Albert Beach 

Contact J.A. Balcaen 

803-310 Broadway Ave., Winnipeg R3C 0S5 
942-2588 


Capacity: 

Session: 

Location: 

Contact: 


Purpose: 


PROVINCIAL RECREATION LEADERSHIP 
TRAINING CENTRE 

(Dept, of Tourism, Recreation and Cultural Affairs) 

Founded: 1962 

120 

Year-round 
Gimli, Manitoba 
Peter Cowan 

189 Evanson Street, Winnipeg R3G 0N9 
774-1705 

The Provincial Recreation Leadership Training Center 
is a year-round residential training center for recreation 
leaders. The camp is made available to other depart¬ 
ments of government or recreation agencies when not 
in use by the Department of Tourism, Recreation and 
Cultural affairs. 

o RED ROCK BIBLE CAMP 

(Red Rock Bible Camp Association) 

Founded: 1948 

Capacity: 90 

Session: 1 week or weekend year-round 

Fee: Before June 1st — $36.00 per week 

After June 1st — $38.00 per week 
Teen's Canoe & Cycle Camp: 

Before June 1st — $38.00 
After June 1st — $48.00 

Location: Whiteshell Provincial Park (11 miles north of Rennie) 

Contact: Cliff Dirks 

Box 790, Steinbach, R0A 2A0 
326-3664/326-9784 

Purpose: Quality Christian camping; outdoor education; a pro¬ 

gram designed to meet the needs of campers in every 
area of life (physical, social, spiritual). 

CAMP SETON 
(Camp Arnes) 

Founded: 1969 

Capacity: 

Session: 

Fee: 

Location: 


Contact: 


Purpose: 


12 

1 week July 
$50.00 

100 west of Winnipeg, adjacent to Spruce Woods 
Provincial Forest Reserve. 

Camp Director 

1151 Henderson Highway, Winnipeg, Manitoba 
338-9325 

Wilderness Ranch experience for boys and girls ages 


14-17 yrs. where they can discover the development of 
their personal qualities, learn to depend on each other 
for their existence and enjoy the adventures of tripping 
in the saddles. 

Worship, Bible studies, reflection and horsemanship 
instruction are an integral part of the total experience. 

SUNRISE LUTHERAN CAMP 

(Central Canada Synod of the Lutheran Church in America) 

Founded: 1946 

63 

1 week June-September 
Available on request 
Husavick, Manitoba 
Oscar Bjorklund 

150 Thatcher Dr., Winnipeg R3T 2L8 
269-6933 

Education in Bible knowledge; training in Christian 
living and community; appreciation of creation and 
stewardship of resources; physical growth and recrea¬ 
tion. 


Capacity: 

Session: 

Fee: 

Location: 

Contact: 


Purpose: 


t UKRANIAN PARK CAMP 
(Ukranian Catholic Diocese of Manitoba) 

Founded: 1950 

300 in separate groups of boys and girls 
6 weeks October to May 
$52.50 for 2 weeks 

One mile north of Camp Morton, Manitoba 
Rev. Roman Kysilewsky 
115 McGregor Street, Winnipeg R2W 4V6 
589-5025 

The camp is open for children to give them a healthy 
rest, give them training to be good Canadian citizens 
and give them good training in morals and discipline. 


Capacity: 

Session: 

Fee: 

Location: 

Contact: 


Purpose: 


UNITED CHURCH OF CANADA 

Manitoba Conference, 

120 Maryland Street, 

Winnipeg R3G 1 LI 
774-8529 


(1) ROCK 

Founded: 

Capacity: 

Session: 

Fee: 

Location: 
Contact: 


Purpose: 


LAKE UNITED CHURCH CAMP 
1900 
56 

Available for rental year-round 
3 days $12; 6 days $25; 10 days $40.00 
North shore Rock Lake 
Frank Van Dusen 

Box 324, Pilot Mound, Manitoba R0G 1P0 
337-21 Crystal City 

To provide a camping experience on a Christian basis 
for all ages, of all backgrounds. To enrich Christian 
understanding of God, man and the world. To develop 
Christian personality, character and fellowship. 


(2) CAMP TOTOGAN 

(Portage Presbytery United Church) 

Founded: 1960 

48 

6 days July-August 
$35.00 

Lake Manitoba 
Rev. J. Scott 

Tupper South, Portage La Prairie 
857-4471 

Creating an "Intention Christian Community" in the 
out-of-doors. 


Capacity: 

Session: 

Fee: 

Location: 

Contact: 


Purpose: 


(3) WELLMAN LAKE CAMP 


Founded: 

Capacity: 

Session: 

Fee: 

Contact: 


Purpose: 


1955 

50 

6 days - July 
Available on request 
Murray Wenstob 

Box 42, Swan River, Manitoba R0L 1Z0 
734-2957 

An opportunity to experience within a Christian com¬ 
munity, the out-of-doors and group living and to learn 
Christian attitudes and camp skills. 


44 



MANITOBA 


ot CAMP WANNAKUMBAC 
(Manitoba Farm Bureau) 


Founded: 

Capacity: 

Session: 

Fee: 

Location: 

Contact: 


Purpose: 


1940 

72 (co-ed) 

Summer: 7 days mid-June - September 1 
Winter: September 1 - mid-June (Flexible) 

Available upon request 
Clear Lake, Manitoba 
Ed Mann 

437 Assiniboine Ave., Winnipeg R3C 0Y5 
943-2500 

To provide urban and rural children with a co-operative 
group living experience in a setting close to nature, 
encouraging the development of the skills of each indi¬ 
vidual camper through a challenging and comprehensive 


nrnnram 


tWINKLER BIBLE CAMP 
(Winkler Bible Camp Association) 

Founded: 1949 

Capacity: 90 

Session: 8 days July-August 

Fee: $29.00 

Location: 7 miles northwest of Winkler on Hwy. No. 3 

Contact: Ted Goosen 

Box 251, Winkler R0G 2X0 
325-7725 

Purpose: To lead the camper into new experiences with Christ, 

other people and nature. To help develop the camper 
spiritually, socially, educationally and morally through 
a varied program. Program extension — Pembina canoe 
trips and wilderness camping. 


o Y.M.C.A. CAMPING DEPARTMENT 

Secretary: Alice Neville 


t (1) CAMP STEPHENS - BOYS 

Founded: 1891 

Capacity: 144 

Session: Three 2-week July-August 

Fee: $165.00 

Location: Kenora, Ontario 


Contact: Punch Jackson 

301 Vaughan Street, Winnipeg R3B 2N7 
942-8157 

Purpose: To provide a positive outdoor experience for boys 

8-16 years. 


t (2) CAMP 
Founded: 
Capacity: 
Session: 
Fee: 

Location: 

Contact: 


Purpose: 


STEPHENS -GIRLS 
1963 
144 

One 2-weeks August 17-30 

$165.00 

Kenora, Ontario 

Lynda Keep 

c/o St. James Y.M.C.A. 

150 Ferry Road, St. James R3J 1V7 
888-7924 

To provide a positive experience out-of-doors for girls 
8-16 years. 


(3) COUNSELLOR TRAINING PROGRAM 

Capacity: 32 

Session: 6-8 weeks July-September 

Fee: $250.00 

Location: Kenora, Ontario 

Contact: Lynda Keep 

c/o St. James Y.M.C.A., 

150 Ferry Road, St. James R3J 1V7 
888-7924 


Purpose: To provide a training experience for boys and girls 

15-16 years of age. An indepth training event for future 
camp counsellors. 


(4) VOYAGEURS AND SERENDIPITY 

Founded: 1963 

Capacity: 80 

Session: Three 2-week July-August 

Fee: $180.00 

Location: Kenora, Ontario 

Contact: Punch Jackson 

301 Vaughan Street, Winnipeg R3B 2N7 
942-8157 


Purpose: To offer an adventurous wilderness canoe-tripping pro¬ 

gram to boys ages 13-16 and girls 12-16. Wilderness 
skills and individuality are expressed in each group of 
campers. 


ASSOCIATE MEMBERS 


CITY OF WINNIPEG - PARKS & RECREATION 

Contact: Elsie Hopkins 

10 Fort Street, Winnipeg R3C 1A5 

CITY OF WINNIPEG, COMMUNITY OF ST. BONIFACE, 
PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT 

Contact: Don Carrie 

219 Provencher Blvd., Winnipeg R2H 3B5 
947-0161, Ext. 234 

CONFERENCE CAMP COMMITTEE - UNITED CHURCH 
OF CANADA 

Contact: Shanley Parkinson 

706 Harstone Road, Charleswood R3R 1 E2 
837-1277 


NEIGHBOURHOOD LIFE GROUPS 

Contact: Ron Kroeker 

Box 2853, The Pas, Manitoba 

TOWN OF SELKIRK PARKS AND RECREATION 

Contact: Mr. Vern Desmet 

200 Eaton Avenue, Selkirk, Manitoba 
(204) 482-4321 

TRANSCONA PARKS AND RECREATION 

Contact: Mrs. Phyllis Hall 

401 Pandora W., Transcona R2C 1M7 
222-5221 


MR. LARRY AUSTMAN 

c/o North Y.M.C.A. 

N.E. College & McGregor, 
Winnipeg 

MR. GEORGE BOCK 

638 Simcoe Street 
Winnipeg 

THE BRACES 

602-234 Ronald Street 
Winnipeg R3J 3J4 

MR. ARNOLD COHEN 

330 Edmonton Street 
Winnipeg R3B 2L2 

MR. ED CORNELSON 

Box 120, Altona 
R0G 0B0 


INDIVIDUAL MEMBERS 


ELSIE HOPKINS 

712 Elmhurst Road 
Winnipeg R3R 0V1 

SANDY HYMAN 

804 Ash Street 
Winnipeg R3N 0R8 

MISS LYNDA KEEP 

c/o St. James Y.M.C.A. 

150 Ferry Road 
Winnipeg R3J 1V7 

MR. MAC McCORQUODALE 

159 Kings Drive 
Winnipeg R3T 3G2 

SUSAN McKAY 

400-372 Assiniboine 
Winnipeg R3C 0Y2 


MR. JOHN MACBETH 

c/o Y.M.C.A. 

301 Vaughan Street 
Winnipeg R3B 2N7 

MR. JOHN W. MARTENS 

665 Kilkenny Drive 
Winnipeg R3T 3B3 

r.b. McIntosh 

130 Pinedale Avenue 
Winnipeg R2H 1R6 

GERALD MIRECKI 

261 Chelsey Avenue 
Phone 334-4912 

MR. GEORGE NEUFELD 

Box 120, Altona 
R0G 0B0 


JOY OOTO 

(Manitoba Pioneer) 

MARIANNE PACKHAM 

c/o Family Bureau of 
Greater Winnipeg 
264 Edmonton Street 
Winnipeg R3C 1R9 

MRS. SHANLEY PARKINSON 

United Church of Canada 

MARGOT SAMBROOKE 

128 St. Claire 
Winnipeg R2C 0V6 

SALLY SHWETZ 

251 Wildwood Park 
Winnipeg R3T 0E4 


45 



MANITOBA 


FRESH AIR EXPERIENCE 

Mr. Lyle Wilson 

1900 Pembine Hwy., Winnipeg R3T 2G2 
269-9896 

Camping equipment, backpacking, cycling, 
skiing, canoe tripping. 

S. GUMPERT CO. OF CANADA LTD. 

31 Brock Avenue, Toronto, Ontario 
(416) 531-5758 

HAPPY OUTDOORSMAN LTD. 

Mr. Doug McLaughlin 

433 St. Marys Rd., Winnipeg R2M 3K7 

233-6461 

Highest quality equipment for the serious 
outdoorsman — backpacking, canoeing, 
camping, cross-country skiing. 


COMMERCIAL MEMBERS 

JOHN MARTEN CO. LTD. 

Mr. Bob Morrison 

84 Isabel Street, Winnipeg R3A 1 E9 
775-4477 

Sporting Goods — Wholesale 

NORWOOD TENT & AWNING CO. LTD. 

Mr. Cliff Fryers 

1235 Sargent Avenue, Winnipeg R3E 0G2 
774-2444 

Trailers, cabanas, boat covers, awnings, 
tents and tarpaulins. 

SALADA FOODS LTD. 

Mr. J.F. Webster 

2003 Portage Avenue, Winnipeg R3J 0K3 
889-4566 

Tea, Rise TV' Shine Crystals, Dessert 
Products, jams, jellies, potato products, 
pie-fillings. Salada dressings and pickles. 


SCOTT NATIONAL 

Lome Kurbis 

1260 Sargent Avenue, Winnipeg R3C 2H8 

TANDY LEATHER COMPANY 

Mr. Lloyd Jones 

304 Edmonton Street, Winnipeg R3B 2L2 
943-0096 

Supplies for leathercraft, resin casting, 
copper tooling, candlemaking, Indian Lore 
and mac ram e. 

WEIDMAN BROTHERS LTD. 

Mr. Donald Weidman 

60 Bunting Street, Winnipeg R2X 2P6 

586-8201 

Wholesale groceries and confectionery. 


The use of this directory for commercial purposes without the written consent of the Manitoba Camping Association is prohibited. 

The information contained in this directory is supplied by member camps and is correct to the best of our knowledge at the time of publication. 


Photo courtesy Canadian Government Travel Bureau 



46 










neui Brun/wick Comping A//ockition/ 

As/ocfotion de Comping du 
nouveou-Dfun/wick 

P.O. Box 373 
Fredericton, N.B. 


President: 

Vice-President: 

Treasurer: 

Secretary: 


1975/76 EXECUTIVE 

Rev. Philip Giberson Members of Executive: 

P.O. Box 5, Bath 

Rev. Henri Lanctin 

251 St. George St., Moncton 

Mrs. Joan Coates 

525 Aberdeen St., Fredericton 

Robert Curtis 

155 St. Mary's St., Fredericton 


Herb Northcott 

151 King St. East, Saint John 

Ralph Richardson 

247 Ogden Drive, Riverview 

Kim Strachan 

P.O. Box 731, Moncton 


AIMS AND OBJECTIVES 

To further the interest and welfare of children, youth and adults through camping as an educative, character-building and 
constructive recreational experience. 

To develop and encourage high standards in camping and the maintenance thereof. 

To conduct seminars, conferences and clinics and act as a co-ordinating body for camping in New Brunswick. 

Note: New Brunswick has issued a list of desirable practices for camps. It will continue to work on camp accreditation. 

The use of this directory for commercial purposes without the written permission of the N.B. Camping Association/Associa¬ 
tion de Camping du N.-B. is prohibited. 

The information contained in this directory is supplied by member camps and is correct to the best of our knowledge at the 
time of publication. 


NEW BRUNSWICK CAMPS 


Operates with camps and retreats through¬ 
out the summer. 

Hiking, Bible study, crafts, etc. make up 
the programme. 


Location: Grande Digue 

Underprivileged children included in the 

programme. 

Sponsor: The Salvation Army 
Contact Person: Capt. M. Foley. 


Various camps and sites are located through¬ 
out the province. 

Usual Scout and Cub activities at all camps. 


Mr. Bob Cameron, City Hall, Moncton. 

A progressive camp programme operated by 
the city. 


Founded: 1945 

Owner: First United Church, Bathurst 

Location: Petit Rocher on Bay of Chaleur 
(16 miles north of Bathurst) 
Capacity: 100 people 

Season: Four 7-day Camps in July for Boys 
and Girls, Co-ed, 9-14 years. 

Retarded Children's Camping 2 
weeks in August. 

Available for rental for Weekend, 
Family and Senior Citizen's Camping in 
June and late August. 

Fee: '75 rates for Youth in July — 

$35.00 per week. 

Other rates available on request. 
Facilities: Motel type accommodations, din¬ 
ing and recreational halls, washrooms and 
swimming pool. 

Purpose: To provide opportunities for boys 
and girls to grow in Christian living, an 
awareness of God and His world, the needs 
and feelings of others through fun and 
fellowship, creative activities, Bible Study, 
sports, hikes and swimming. 

Contact: Registrar, Camp Elm Tree 
309 St. Patrick St., Bathurst 


Location: Bel I isle Bay 

Season: Three 2-week periods for boys and 
girls. 

Canoeing, tripping, camp craft and nature 
lore. 

Contact person: Miss Marjorie Booth, 

YWCA, 27 Wellington Row, 
Saint John 


Location: Albert County near Fundy Park, 
54 miles from Moncton. 

An outdoor guidance centre operated as a 
residential camp for boys and girls ages 
8 to 18. 

Sponsor: Moncton Boys Club 
Director: Doug Bradshaw. 


Camps near Harvey, York Co. 

Write for details of summer programme 
for '76. 


Various sites and camps are used during 
the summer months. 

Provincial Commissioner: Mrs. Irene Coates 
525 Aberdeen St., Fredericton, N.B. 


47 


NEW BRUNSWICK 


SAINT JOHN VALLEY BIBLE CAMP 
Box 355, Hartland 

Location: Saint John River, near the world's 
longest covered bridge. 

Season: Camps for various age groups in¬ 
cluding adults. Winter retreats with snow- 
mobiling, skiing, etc. One week periods 
during the summer. 

Fees: Approximately $25.00 per week. 

Christian camping with a purpose. 

Director: Rev. Fred Hansen 

CAMPSHIKTEHAWK 

Location: near Bristol, Carleton County. 

8 weeks of camping for various age groups. 

A modern dining hall with electric heat 
offers winter activities. 

Operated by: United Baptist Churches 
Director: Charles Wry, Bath, N.B. 


William R. Palmer 

1014 Smythe St., Fredericton 
T.J. Wood 

Canadian Wildlife Service 
Box 486, Fredericton 
Mrs. Heather Wright 

89 Garden St., Renforth, Saint John 
Rev. Frank Innes 
Millville 

Rev. H.R. Cooper 

808 Brunswick St., Fredericton 
J. Ernest Anderson 
Dept, of Youth 

Centennial Building, Fredericton 
Ursula Giberson 
P.O. Box 5, Bath 
Susan Hoar 

80 Pine Glen Road, Apt. 11, Riverview 


VOYAGEUR CANOE TRIPPING 
Box 731, Moncton 
Contact Person: Mr. Kin Strachan 
Exciting canoe trips on N.B. waters at a very 
nominal cost. 

Dates, fees, etc., upon request. 


CAMP WILDWOOD 

Location: near Buctouche, Kent County. 
Operates all summer. Bible study, crafts, 
music, etc. 

A camp with swimming pool and some heated 
buildings for late fall and winter activities. 
Contact Person: Frank Lutes, Box 564, 
Moncton, N.B. 


PERSONAL MEMBERS 

Tedd Weyman 

59 Lansdowns St., Fredericton 
Mrs. Joyce MacKenzie 

22 Dufferin St., Campbellton 
Mrs. James E. Bateman 

R.R. # 1, Dorchester Crossing 
Mr. Charles McNair 

P.O. Box 68, Andover 
Lt.-Col. H.W. Brogan 

145 Wilmot Circle, Oromcto 
Robert A. O'Brien 
R.R. #2, Westfield 
Robert Paradis 

P.O. Box 671, Grand Falls 

Arthur W.R. Gregg 

106 Summer St., Fredericton 
Rev. Wayne Briggs 

Seal Cove, Grand Manan 


CAMP WOOLASTOOK 
Muniac, N.B. 

Location: the Muniac Stream in Victoria 
County. 

Bible study, recreation, sports, handcrafts. 
Sponsor: The United Church of Canada 
Contact Person: Rev. Fred Garnett, 

Box 122, Andover, N.B. 


Rev. Ford Alward 
Box 30, Nackawic 
John Esau 

R .R. # 1, Debert, Nova Scotia 
Gary Rouse 

108 Birchmount Drive, Moncton 
James Matheson 

P.O. Box 754, St. Stephen 
Mrs. Ruby Henry 

805 Irvine St., Fredericton 
Mrs. G.R. Brien 

58 Cambridge Cres., Fredericton 
Miss Josephine Mazzucca 

Churchill Row, Fredericton 
Merritt Burcher 

R.R. #1, Fredericton 
Milada Machan 

6907 Lewieux, Montreal, Quebec 



Photo courtesy Rick Gilbert 


48 











flcwfoundland fi labrador 
Camping A//ociation 

1 P.O. Box 4188 

St. John's, Newfoundland 


1975 EXECUTIVE 


Past President 
President 
Vice President 
Secretary 
Treasurer 


Honorary President — Dr. J. Douglas Eaton 


Mr. Frank Jennings 
Mrs. Barbara Taylor (709) 722-6478 
Mr. Stan Cook (709) 726-5900 
Mrs. Dorothy Winter (709) 579-7385 
Mr. Jim Winter 


Directors 


Standards Chairman 
News/e tter Editor 


Mr. Gary Gray 
Mr. Wilfred Thomas 
Mrs. Silvia Manning 
Mrs. Dorothy Winter 
Mr. Gratton Sheely 


OBJECTIVES OF THE ASSOCIATION 

The Newfoundland & Labrador Camping Association is a Provincial Section of the Canadian Camping Association (which 
was incorporated by Letters Patent at Ottawa November 5, 1949). 


This is an organization of people who believe in organized camping as an educational, recreational movement located in the 
out-of-doors setting, dedicated to furthering the growth and development of children and adults, through experiencing 
group-life under qualified persons. 


The objectives of the Newfoundland & Labrador Camping Association are: 

- to further the interests and welfare of children, youths and adults through camping as an educative, 
character-building and constructive recreational experience 

- to act as a Newfoundland & Labrador promotional and co-ordinating body for camping through this 
province 

- to develop, maintain and recognize high standards in camping. 


CAMP ACCREDITATION PROGRAM 

One of the major objectives of the Camping Association is to improve camping standards, and to achieve this, the Association 
established minimum standards in 1970. These standards cover facilities, health, sanitation, safety, staff and administration. 
Member camps may apply for accreditation under this program. Members of the standards committee will visit the camp, and 
discuss the facilities and operation with the Camp Director. If the standards are met, the camp is accredited. 

The Accreditation is for a two-year duration. At the end of two years, the camp will be contacted to determine if a new visit 
is necessary. Accreditation is not transferable from site to site, nor from owner to owner. Should either occur, then a re-visit 
would become necessary. 

The program has been a great help to many camps, as it provides a yard-stick to measure their performance. It is primarily 
educational, and will eventually be tied in closely with the education and staff training program now being developed by 
the Association. 

Although in the initial stages it has been a problem providing the necessary staff to visit the many camps that have applied 
for accreditation, the program has been of great benefit for both the camp Directors and the visiting teams. For the parents 
of camp children, the program provides assurance that the standards set by the association are maintained in member camps. 

The Standards, and the way to apply them, are under continuing critical examination, and they will be changed from time 
to time to meet the needs of our members. 

INDEX OF CAMPS 


Artiban (The Anglican Church) 
Burry Heights (The United Church) 
Camp Cabot (YMCA) 

Camp Caribou (YMCA) 

Camp Cormack (YMCA) 

Diabetic Children's Camp 
4-H Camp Nipper 
Greentrees (The Girl Guides) 

Camp Hartery (Roman Catholic) 
Kill-Devil (The Anglican Church) 
Labrador Christian Youth Camp 


Loon Bay (The United Church) 

Mint Brook (The Anglican Church) 

Northern Arm Camp (The Salvation Army) 

Pinchgut Lake Camp (The Girl Guides) 

C.A. Pippy Park (Boy Scout & Girl Guide Campsite) 
City of St. John's Day Camp 
Sandy Point Provincial Camp and Training Centre 
(The Girl Guides) 

Seventh-Day Adventist Camp 

Camp of the Silver Birches (The Salvation Army) 

West Haven (The United Church) 


49 


NEWFOUNDLAND & LABRADOR 


ARTIBAN (The Anglican Church) 


Capacity: 
Location: 
Season: 
Fees: 


Facilities: 


Contact Person: 


80-90 

Codroy Valley Area 
June to September 

$2.25 per day (church groups) — fees can be 
worked out for other groups requesting use 
of facilities 

Pool, hiking trail, large cook-house and eating 
space, athletic field, cabins for campers (6-8 
per cabin), some boating, beautiful area. 
Program & Facilities 
Reverend Owen Coffen, Channel, Nfld. 


BURRY HEIGHTS (The United Church) 

Capacity: 60 

Location: Shoe Cove — 11 miles east of St. John's 

Season: June 1st to October 30th 

Fees: $2.00 per day per child, plus registration — 

rates for older groups available on request 
Facilities: Dining room assembly area, cabins, swimming, 

hiking, usual outdoor activities. 

Contact Person: Program Facilities 

Reverend Robert Belbin Mr. Lester Lewis 
1 Churchill Street 13 Blackhall Place 

Mount Pearl, Nfld. St. John's, Nfld. 

Phone: 368-8194 Phone: 579-0949 


Contact Person: 


Program 

Mr. Gary Dewling 
Dept. Rehabilitation 
and Recreation 
Confederation Bldg. 
St. John's, Nfld. 
Phone: Res. 722-7743 
Bus. 722-1435 


Facilities 
c/o Mrs. M. Ford 
Dept. Rehabilitation 
and Recreation 
Confederation Bldg. 
St. John's, Nfld. 


GREENTREES (The Girl Guides) 


Capacity: 

Location: 

Season: 

Fees: 

Facilities: 


Contact Person: 


50 (30 in tents — 20 in lodge) 

VA miles from Trinity — 40 miles east of 
Clarenville on the Bonavista Peninsula 
May to October 
$3.00 per day per camper 
Use of pool (Trinity Cabins), lodge approx. 
54' x 36', kitchen equipped with oil stove, two 
doubled-bunk supervisor rooms, large recreation 
room, two dormitories, water must be carried, 
electric light, tents, outdoor fireplaces and eating 
facilities, nature trails, historical sites, bay suit¬ 
able for boating. 

Facilities 
Mr. S.R. Morris 

c/o Trinity Cabins, Trinity, Trinity Bay, Nfld. 
Phone: 464-3657 


CAMP CABOT (YMCA) 


Capacity: 

Location: 

Season: 

Fees: 

Facilities: 


Contact Person: 


30 

Indian Meal Line (Robbins Pond) 

4 weeks 

$12.00 - $15.00 per week 

Co-ed Day Camp with emphasis on small group 
activities — ages of campers 9 to 13 years — 
operated by VMCA. 

Program 

Gary Gray (YMCA) 

Box 785, St. John's, Nfld. Phone: 726-3197 


CAMP HARTERY (Roman Catholic) 

Capacity: 40 

Location: 5 miles west of Deer Lake 

Season: 8 weeks 

Fees: Sliding Scale 

Facilities: Dining Hall, auditorium, waterfront, tents, 

cleared camping sites. 

Contact Person: Program 

Mr. A.J. Downey 

93 East Valley Road, Corner Brook, Nfld. 
Phone: 634-4277 


CAMP CARIBOU (YMCA) 


Capacity: 

Location: 

Season: 

Fees: 

Facilities: 


Contact Person: 


14 

Indian Meal Line 
2 weeks 

$35.00 per week 

Tenting for boys 11 to 13 years old — activities 
wilderness nature — live-in resident camp — no 
buildings. 

Program 

Mr. Gary Gray (YMCA) 

Box 785, St. John's, Nfld. Phone: 726-3197 


CAMP CORMACK (YMCA) 


Capacity: 

Location: 

Season: 

Fees: 

Facilities: 

Contact Person: 


12 per trip 

Mobile camp (canoe camping) 

2 weeks 
$35.00 per trip 

This is a canoe trip for boys 13 to 15 years, 
operated by the YMCA. 

Program 

Mr. Gary Gray (YMCA) 

Box 785, St. John's, Nfld. Phone: 726-3197 


DIABETIC CHILDREN'S CAMP 


Capacity: 

Location: 

Season: 

Fees: 

Facilities: 


Contact Person: 


35 for camp 
Use Burry Heights 
10 days 

$15.00 per camper 

Lodge with kitchen and two rooms, pond for 
swimming, eight cabins (heated), hiking trails, 
canoeing, soccer field, play area. 

Program Facilities 

Mrs. W. Hiscock Mr. Leslie Lewis 

Site 7, Box 17, 13 Blackhall Place 

St. John's, Nfld. St. John's, Nfld. 

Phone: 368-9660 Phone: 579-0949 


4H - CAMP NIPPER 

Capacity: 50 

Location: North Pond — Gambo — 15 miles up Mint 

Brook Road 

Season: 8 weeks 

Fees: $ 10.00 per week 

Facilities: Not winterized 


KILL-DEVIL (The Anglican Church) 


100 plus 
Bonne Bay 
June to September 
approximately $2.25 per day 
Pool, hiking trails, cabins (accommodating 6-8 
campers), athletic fields, very scenic area, some 
boating, cook-house and eating area to accom¬ 
modate 100, main building 50-60. 

Contact Person: Facilities 

Mr. H.A. House 
Cobb Lane, 

Corner Brook, Nfld. 


Capacity: 

Location: 

Season: 

Fees: 

Facilities: 


LABRADOR CHRISTIAN YOUTH CAMP 

Capacity: 60 

Location: Gosling Lake, Goose Bay, Labrador 

Season: May to October 

Fees: $1.00 per day per camper 

Facilities: Winterized — wood stoves in lower section of 

two-storey camp, four bunk-houses, cook-house, 
generator shed, area where tents can be set up, 
lake suitable for boating and swimming, suitable 
for hiking although hiking trails are not available. 
Contact Person: Program & Facilities 

The Commanding Officer, 

The Salvation Army, P.O. Box 52, 

Happy Valley, Labrador 
Phone: 896-3118 


LOON BAY 
Capacity: 
Location: 
Season: 

Fees: 

Facilities: 


Contact Person: 


50 

Loon Bay, Notre Dame Bay 
May 15th - October 30th 

$2.00 per day plus registration - rates to Adult 
Groups on request 

Large dining room and lodge, cabins can accom¬ 
modate small groups, hiking, swimming (in the 
sea). 

Facilities 
Herbert Manuel 
121 Memorial Drive 
Gander, Nfld. 

Phone: 256-8449 


Program 

Reverend Ralph Taylor 
Bishop's Falls, Nfld. 
Phone: 258-6236 


50 



NEWFOUNDLAND & LABRADOR 


MINT BROOK (The Anglican Church) 

Capacity: 100 campers 

Location: Mint Brook - Gambo — % mile east of turn-off 

to Bonavista North 
June to September 

$2.25 (church groups) — fees can be arranged 
for others seeking use of facilities 
Pool (i.e. river) canoeing, hiking, trails, tents, 
main building, accommodating purposes — 100 
(winterized). Two other buildings can accom¬ 
modate 70-80, smaller building, bathroom faci¬ 
lities, showers, electric heat, salmon fishing, 
athletic fields. 

Program Facilities 

Diocesan Synod Office Mr. Ben Gardiner 
68 Queen's Road 48 Ennis Ave. 

St. John's, Nfld. St. John's 

Phone: 726-6697 Phone: 722-8352 


Season: 

Fees: 

Facilities: 


Contact Person: 


NORTHERN ARM CAMP (The Salvation Army) 

Capacity: 

Location: 

Season: 

Fees: 

Facilities: 

Contact Person: 


110 

Northern Arm, Botwood 

Summer months 

$14.00 to $18.00 per camper 

Auditorium - capacity 400, large cabins, dining 

hall, bathroom facilities, playing area. 

Program & Facilities 
Captain Bill Ratcliff 
Divisional Youth Secretary 
12 Springdale Street, St. John's, Nfld. 

Phone: 726-0047 


PINCHGUT LAKE CAMP (The Girl Guides) 

Capacity: 100 

Location: Pinchgut Lake, Gull Pond Road 

Season: June to September 

Fees: Varies with group 

Facilities: Canoeing, hiking trails, tents, cook-house, dining 

hall, dormitory for 50 persons, cooking shelters. 
Contact Person: Program Facilities 

Pinchgut Camp Committee Mrs. R.W. MacLeod 
P.O. Box 584, 28 Central Street, 

Corner Brook, Nfld. Corner Brook, Nfld. 

Phone: 634-5589 Phone: 634-5589 


C.A. PIPPY PARK (Boy Scout & Girl Guide Campsite) 

100 indoors — 224 in tents 
Middle Pond, St. John's 

June 1st to September 30th plus winter camping 
$10.00 per week for group site (56 persons) 
Pool, canoeing, hiking trails, tents, boating, 
buildings. The site will be available for all Boy 
Scout Groups and Girl Guide Groups in New¬ 
foundland. Other youth groups may use the 
site by special arrangement. The site will not be 
available to the general public. Each group will 
arrange its own program. 

Program 

Girl Guides Boy Scouts 

Mrs. Borry Crane Provincial Headqtrs. 

6 Ellis Place 288 Duckworth St. 

St. John's, Nfld. St. John's, Nfld. 

Phone: 579-1698 Phone: 726-6150 

Facilities 

R.J. Vardy, 2 Long Pond Rd., St. John's, Nfld. 
Phone: 753-1378 

753-1200 Local 2789 (Business) 


Capacity: 

Location: 

Season: 

Fees: 

Facilities: 


Contact Person: 


CITY OF ST. JOHN'S DAY CAMP 

Capacity: 40 campers 

Location: Rotary Sunshine Park 

Season: July, August 

Fees: $10.00 per week 

Facilities: Swimming area, canoeing, hiking trails, main 

building with bathroom facilities, athletic field, 
play areas. 


Contact Person: Program & Facilities 

Mr. Noel Vinnicombe 
Assistant Director of Recreation 
City Hall, St. John's, Nfld. 
Phone: 726-8820 


SANDY POINT PROVINCIAL CAMP AND 
TRAINING CENTRE (The Girl Guides) 


Capacity: 

Location: 

Season: 


Fees: 

Facilities: 


Contact Person: 


90 under canvas — 30 in lodge 
at the mouth of the Exploits River 
mid-June to mid-September (under canvas), the 
lodge from mid-May to mid-November, depend¬ 
ing on the weather 

$15.00 approximately (depending on group 
using camp) 

Water-front (sandy beach on river), tents, lodge, 
three separate cleared camping sites for approxi¬ 
mately thirty girls each. 

Program Facilities 

Prov. Camp Commissioner Mrs. Marion Hornell 
Nfld. Council, Girl Guides 18 Monchy Road 
of Canada Grand Falls, Nfld. 

Bldg. 566, Pleasantville 
St. John's, Nfld. 

Phone: 726-1116 


SEVENTH-DAY ADVENTIST CAMP 

Capacity: 60 

Location: West end of South Pond, Trans-Canada Highway 

Season: Summer months 

Fees: $14.00 per week 

Facilities: Pool, canoeing, hiking trails, boating, running 

water — chlorinated, play field. 

Contact Person: Program Facilities: 

Mr. George Schafer Rev. R.A. Matthews 

106 Freshwater Road 106 Freshwater Rd. 

St. John's, Nfld. St. John's, Nfld. 

Phone: 579-1152 Phone: 579-1152 


CAMP OF THE 

Capacity: 

Location: 

Season: 

Fees: 

Facilities: 


Contact Person: 


SILVER BIRCHES (The Salvation Army) 

65 

Pasedena 
8 weeks 

$14.00 to $18.00 per camper 
Dining hall, auditorium, cabins, electric heat, 
new site under development which will include 
hiking trails and tents. 


Program 

Capt. David Hiscock 
Salvation Army 
Headquarters 
Grand Falls, Nfld. 


Facilities 
Mr. Ben Barrett 
Camp Committee 
Chairman 
8 French's Road 
Corner Brook, Nfld. 
Phone: 634-6479 


WEST HAVEN (The United Church) 


Capacity: 

Location: 

Season: 

Fees: 

Facilities: 


Contact Person: 


60 

South Brook on Deer Lake 
June 1st to October 30th 

$2.00 per day per child plus registration - rates 
to adult groups available on request. 

Four large buildings, dining room, kitchen, two 
dormitories and assembly hall, swimming, hiking 
and the usual outdoor activities. 

Facilities 

Mr. Jack Murdock 
Deer Lake, Nfld. 

Phone: 635-2806 


The use of this directory for commercial purposes without the written consent of the Newfoundland & Labrador Camping Association is prohibited. 
The information contained in this directory is supplied by member camps and is correct to the best of our knowledge at the time of publication. 


51 



flovck Scotia Comping A//ociation 

Box 3243S 

Halifax, Nova Scotia B3J 3H5 


Honorary President: 

Bill Speed 

6692 Second Street 
Halifax, N.S. 

Past President: 

Marian Rosborough 
55 Purcell's Cove Road 
Halifax, N.S. 

President & Acting Treasurer: 
Rev. David Boston 
P.0. Box 7035 N 
Halifax, N.S. 

Vice-President: 

Paul Potter 
2623 Fuller Terrace 
Halifax, N.S. 


EXECUTIVE 

Secretary & Membership: 
Murray Wickwire 
1675 Cambridge Street 
Halifax, N.S. 

Outdoor Education: 

Freda Wales 

6264 Payzant Avenue 

Halifax, N.S. 

Public Relations: 

Blanche Potter 
2623 Fuller Terrace 
Halifax, N.S. 


Liaison: N.S. Dept, of Recreation: 
Allan Clark 
5 Jayden Drive 
Dartmouth, N.S. 

Members at Large: 

John Caldwell 

Ross Road Elementary School 
R.R. No. 1, Dartmouth, N.S. 

Glyn Bissix 

Dept, of Recreation & Physical Ed. 
Acadia University 
Wolfville, N.S. 

Doddie Goodwin 
Box 192 

New Glasgow, N.S. 


MEMBER CAMPS 


ARTHUR KIDSTON MEMORIAL CAMP 
(United Church) 

Contact: 104 Central Avenue, Fairview, N.S. 


GIRL GUIDES 

Contact: Mrs. Mary Sargeant 

31 Esdaile Avenue, Dartmouth, N.S. 


BIG COVE CAMP (V.M.C.A.) 

Contact: P.O. Box 3024, Halifax South, Halifax, N.S. 


CAMP BRUNSWICK (The United Church) 

Capacity: 40 (including staff) girls and boys 

Location: East Chezzetcook 

Pees: $1.00 per person up to 20 

Sessions: Camp is winterized and operates mainly on 

weekends 

Activities: Swimming, hiking, sports, arts and crafts, nature 

study. 

Contact Person: Mrs. Ann Cruickshank 

2107 Brunswick Street, Halifax, N.S. 

Phone: 423-4605 


CAMP CARMEL 

Contact: 34 George Street, New Waterford, 

Cape Breton, N.S. 


JOHNSTON CRISTIAN PARK (Christian Church) 

Contact: Wilfred Cosman 

Weymouth, Digby County, N.S. 

LAKE SHERBROOKE UNITED CHURCH CAMP 

Contact: c/o Mr. N.J. Dupuis 

21 Elizabeth Avenue, Bridgewater, N.S. 


CAMP MORSE 

Contact: Department of Public Welfare 

P.O. Box 696, Halifax, N.S. 

PROVINCIAL 4-H CLUBS 

Contact: Marlene MacMillan 

Provincial 4-H Supervisor 

Dept, of Agriculture & Marketing, Truro, N.S. 


CAMP DISCOVERY 

Capacity: 40 (including staff) girls and boys 

Location: Inverness, Cape Breton, N.S. 

Pees: $1000.00 for 8 weeks 

Sessions: July 6 to August 31 

Activities: Canoeing, drama, arts and crafts, dancing, out- 

tripping, sessions in human relations, nature lore, 
carpentry and others 

Contact Person: Ms. April Hamilton 

c/o Hamilton School Inc., 

Sheffield, Massachusetts, 01257, U.S.A. 

Phone: (617) 229-2149 

DIVISION OF MISSION IN CANADA 

Contact: P.O. Box 750, Sackville, N.B. 


CAMP GEDDIE (Presbyterian) 

Contact: 805 Maritime Building, New Glasgow, N.S. 


ST. ANNE'S ANGLICAN YOUTH CAMP 

Contact: Box 489, Middleton, N.S. 


SCOTIA GLEN (Salvation Army Camp) f 

Contact: Captain K. Rideout 

N.S. Divisional Headquarters 
1329 Barrington Street, Halifax, N.S. 


SCOTIAN OUTDOOR PURSUITS 


Capacity: 

Location: 

Fees: 

Sessions: 

Activities: 


Contact Person: 


12 plus 2 staff 
Wolfville, N.S. 

$695.00 for 28 days 
July and August 

Each session embarks on a 28 day bicycle trip 
around Nova Scotia and also partakes in canoe¬ 
ing, backpacking, visiting points of interest, and 
deep sea fishing. 

Mr. Bill Reeves 

P.O. Box 1112, Wolfville, N.S. 

Phone: 542-5550 (home) 542-5709 (office) 


52 



NOVA SCOTIA 


SIGHT POINT CAMP 


Capacity: 

Location: 

Fees: 

Sessions: 

Activities: 

Contact Person: 


60 (including staff) girls and boys 
Inverness, Cape Breton, N.S. 

$785 for 8 weeks 
June 26 to August 22 

Horseback riding, hiking, kayaking, swimming, 
carpentry, dancing, trail making and others. 

Ms. Ginny Christensen 
5 Gordon Place, Cambridge, 

Massachusetts 02139, U.S.A. 


CAMP TIDNISH 

Contact: Mr. H.J.B. Epton 

21 Campbell Street, Sydney, N.S. 


CAMP WAMPOMEO (YMCA) 


Capacity: 

Location: 

Fees: 

Sessions: 

Activities: 

Contact Person: 


90 (including staff) girls and boys 
Carleton, Yarmouth County 
$46.00/1 week — $96.00/2 weeks 
Three 2*week sessions beginning July 1 
Swimming, canoeing, nature lore, arts and crafts, 
orienteering, hiking. 

Mr. Raymond Green 

P.O. Box 86, Yarmouth, N.S. 

Phone: 742-7181 


* 


AGENCIES 


Atlantic Christian Training Centre Canadian Red Cross Society 
Don Reid 1940 Gottingen Street 

Tatamagouche Halifax 


Dartmouth YM-YWCA 

Brookdale Court 
Dartmouth 


Board of Christian Education 

Atlantic Baptist Convention 
Box 1053, Saint John, N.B. 


Canadian Youth Hostels Association 
Maritime Region 
5516 Spring Garden Rd., Halifax 


Girl Guides of Canada 

Provincial Headquarters 
1871 Granville St., Halifax 


Halifax South Open School 

6026 University Avenue 
Halifax 

Nova Scotia Dept, of 
Social Services 

P.O. Box 696, Halifax 


Joel LaMore 

P.O. Box 668, Antigonish 

Howard J. Oehman 
14 Bridget Avenue, 
Spryfield, Halifax 

Betty F. Peterson 
Gunner Peterson 
P.O. Box 684, Halifax 

David A. Kerr 
P.O. Box 85, Bedford 


INDIVIDUAL MEMBERS 


Philip Hochman 

P.O. Box 3, Guysborough 

Lesley Howard 

9V2 Lakeview Ave., Dartmouth 
Harold Brown 

P.O. Box 192, New Glasgow 
Patrick Bright 

University of King's College 
Coburg Road, Halifax 


Raymond Green 
P.O. Box 86, Yarmouth 

Richard W. Vinson 
R.R. #3 Armdale, Halifax 

Tom Creighton 

2623 Fuller Terrace, Halifax 

Mrs. A.J. Hustins, Jr. 

125 Shore Drive, Bedford 


The use of this directory for commercial purposes without the written consent of the Nova Scotia Camping Association is prohibited. 

The information in this directory has been supplied by member camps and is correct to the best of our knowledge at the time of publication. 


Photo courtesy City of Moncton Day Camp 



53 








Ontario Camping A//ociation 

Suite 203, 102 Eglinton Ave. E. 

Toronto, Ontario M4P 1E1 
Telephone: (416) 486-8630 
Mrs. Nodja R. Read, Secretary 


ADVISORY BOARD 

DIRECTORS 

President / Kirk A.W. Wipper 
Immediate Past President / Jack Pearse 
Vice Presidents / Tony Fry 

Bruno Morawetz 
Miss Jocelyn Palm 
Treasurer / William V. Swift 
Recording Secretary / Mrs. Shirley Hall 

COMMITTEE CHAIRMEN 

Aquatics / Miss Bev Greene 

History & Research / Mrs. Elizabeth Raymer 

Conference / Jack Bowman 

Counsellor Conference / Miss Pat Pearse 

Day Camping / Tony Lea 

Education i Mrs. Barbara Gilchrist 

Environmental Concerns / Craig Copeland 

Legislation / Jack Bowman 

Membership & Directory / Paul Rushton 

Nominations i Jack Pearse 

Outdoor Education / John S. Russell 

Public Relations /Swain Van Camp 

Standards / Al Goodman & Cliff Labbett 

Wilderness Travel / Wally Schaber 

Woodsmanship / John E. MacGregor 


MEMBERS AT LARGE AND 
SPECIAL REPRESENTATIVES 


Miss Kim Ball Peter Gilbert 

Rev. George G. Connolly William Henderson 

Doug Dent Wayne Perkins 

Mrs. Barbara Fox Miss Dorothy Walter 

Newsletter / Mrs. G.W. Flynn 


PAST PRESIDENTS 

*Taylor Statten, *Miss Mary Edgar, *E.A. Chapman, 
*H.A. Ward, Charles Plewman, Irwin Haladner, 

W.E. Yard, W. Bertram Danson, *John Hoyle, 

Miss Margaret Govan, Barry Lowes, Clifford Labbett, 
Mrs. J. Harry Ebbs, John Latimer, Ivan Robinson, 
Ron Johnstone, Jack Pearse. 

"(Deceased) 


THE ONTARIO CAMPING ASSOCIATION has given 
encouragement and direction to the camping movement in 
this Province since the 1940's. Comprised of those who 
support organized camping as an educational, recreational 
experience, guided by trained leaders in a natural environ¬ 
ment, it is committed to the preparation of children for 
participation, living and learning within the total community. 

The objectives of the Ontario Camping Association are: 

— "to further the interests and welfare of children and 

youths through camping as an educative character 

building and constructive recreational experience. 

— "to provide for the sharing of ideas and knowledge 

pertaining to the operation of children's camps. 

— "to develop and encourage high standards in camping. 

— "to provide information about camps and to interpret 

children's camping to parents and the general public. 

— "to strive for the recruitment and training of leader¬ 

ship for every phase of children's camping." 

Camp directors, leaders and counsellors voluntarily aim to 
achieve these objectives. Various committees continually 
study and explore methods related to enrichment and 
development of the camping experience. Services offered 
to the public include provision of speakers to groups desir¬ 
ing increased knowledge on camping benefits and oppor¬ 
tunities; a counsellor's bureau aids both directors and 
prospective camp leaders. Members of the Association 
meet regularly and annual conferences attract over one 
thousand persons who discuss and consider common 
policies and problems, exchange philosophies and know¬ 
ledge, and consequently achieve improved and innovative 
camping across the Province. 

Individuals or groups sharing the objectives of the Associa¬ 
tion and wishing to become identified with the camping 
movement in Ontario are welcome to apply for membership. 
The Ontario Camping Association does not recommend 
any camp or person. 


STANDARDS FOR ORGANIZED CAMPS 




cmiig awns uwcunoi 


Since its inception the Ontario Camping Association has emphasized constant upgrading of camping 
standards; April, 1965, marked the official acceptance by the Association of specific standards necessary 
for membership within it. Adherence to these MANDATORY STANDARDS determines the initial and 
continued accreditation of the member camp. Consequently, accredited Member Camps listed in this 
Directory subscribe to and comply with these standards. 

With high ideals and standards as guidelines, criteria are constantly being developed to insure that Accredi¬ 
ted Member Camps are safe, well operated, quality camping opportunities. The choice you make is an 
important one which will affect your child's development and future. Take the time and steps necessary 
to assure a wise decision! 


54 






ONTARIO 


INDEX OF CAMPS 

Kindly Note: All camps listed under "Girls", "Boys", "Boys and Girls", are RESIDENTIAL CAMPS, where the children will 
live away from home, for varying periods of one to eight weeks, depending upon the camp. 


GIRLS 


Ak-O-Mak 

John Island 

Owaissa 

Artaban-Bolton 

Kiawa 

Pioneer 

Big Canoe 

Kintail 

Queen Elizabeth 

Bonita Glen 

Kitchener Lions Youth 

Restall 

Brebeuf 

Kitchikewana 

Rolling Acres Ranch 

Cherith 

Kiwanis 

Simpresca 

Connemara 

Marygrove 

Summerland 

Couchiching 

Medeba 

Tanamakoon 

Davern 

Mi-A-Kon-Da 

Tapatoo 

Endobanah 

Mini-Yo-We 

Tapawingo 

Frontier Ranch 

Minwandum 

Wabanaki 

Gay Venture 

Oconto 

Wapomeo 

Glen Bernard 

Onawaw 

Wa-Sa-Ah-Bun 

lawah 

Ontario Girl Guides 

White Bear 

Iona 

Ouareau 

BOYS 


Adanac 

Haliburton Scout Reserve 

Nominigue 

Ahmek 

Hockey Opportunity 

Opemikon 

Allsaw 

lawah 

Orr-Walton 

Artaban-Bolton 

Iona 

Pathfinder 

Beausoleil 

John Island 

Pine Crest 

Big Canoe 

Kakeka 

Pioneer 

Big Doe 

Kandalore 

Ponacka 

Brebeuf 

Keewaydin 

Queen Elizabeth 

Chikopi 

Kilcoo 

Restall 

Columbus 

Kintail 

Samac 

Connemara 

Kitchener Lions Youth 

Simpresca 

Couchiching 

Kitchikewana 

Summerland 

De La Salle 

Kiwanis 

Voyageur 

Ekon 

Langskib 

Wabanaki 

Endobanah 

Mazinaw 

Wabun 

Everton Scout Forest 

Medeba 

Wa-Sa-Ah-Bun 

Frontier Ranch 

Mini-Yo-We 

White Bear 

Haliburton Hockey Haven 

Minwassin 

BOYS AND GIRLS 

Wigwasati 

Boys and girls camps are those having boys and girls on the one site at the same time. 

Many of these camps are co-educational 

and this is noted in their listing (co-ed). As the degree of co-educational programming varies from camp to camp, we suggest 

you contact the directors individually to ascertain the extent of co-education in their program. 

Allsaw 

Kawabi 

Rainbow Valley Ranch 

Anishnawbe 

Kawartha 

Ramah 

Arowhon 

Kelso 

Rollin' Acres 

Bil-O-Wood 

Kennebec 

Scott Mission Fresh Air Camp 

Blue Heron 

Keswick Youth Camp 

Shalom 

Blue Water 

Ki-wa-y 

Sidrabene 

B'nai B'rith of Ottawa 

Kuriou 

Silver Lake 

Bolton 

Kwasind 

Silver Lake Hamilton 

Calumet 

Manitomono 

Solelim 

Circle 

Manitou-Wabing 

Sparrow Lake 

Crusaders 

Maple Leaf 

Swallowdale 

Crystal Springs 

Massad 

Tamakwa 

Dorion Bible Camp 

Menesetung 

Tawingo 

Everton Scout 

Moorelands-Kawagama 

Timberlane 

Fair Glen 

Moshava 

Trailfinder 

Fraser Lake 

New Moon 

Unicamp 

Genesee 

Newport 

Wabikon 

Gesher 

Northland B'nai B'rith 

Wahcahmie 

Glenhuron 

Northway 

Wahanowin 

Hilltop 

Norval 

Walden 

Hockley Valley 

Onondaga 

Wanakita 

Hollyburn 

Ontario Camp Leadership Centre 

Wanapitei 

lawah 

Otterdale 

Wangoma 

Iona 

Pioneer 

Wa-Sa-Ah-Bun 

Jackson's Point Camp #1 

Pleasant Bay 

White Pine 

John Island 

Quin-Mo-Lac 

Winnebagoe 


55 




ONTARIO 


Couchiching 

Etobicoke Recreation Department 
Guelph Kiwanis (Belwood) 


CAMPS FOR SPECIAL NEEDS 

Huronda 

lllahee 

Kohai 

Lake Joseph Holiday Centre 


Ontario Society Crippled Children 

Shadow Lake 

Towhee 


DAY CAMPS 


At DAY CAMPS, children attend during the daytime only, generally on a Monday through Friday basis. However, some may 
offer evening programs, week-end programs and also 'overnights' to varying degrees. Contact with the camps is advisable to 
ascertain exactly what they provide. ' SjO> 


Adventure 
Arrowhead 
Bayview Glen 
Cambridge 

Chippewa (Hamilton) 

Chippewa Thunder Bay 

Circle 

Claireville 

Clover 


C.O.P.Y. 

D'ete 

Etobicoke Recreation Department 

Forest Valley 

Glenbrook 

Gypsy Glen 

Kadimah 

Katonim 

Knotty Knoll 


Naorca 

Otonabee 

Pauwating 

Podunk 

Richildaca 

Robin Hood 

Tri-Bell 

Whitby 


Ackerman, Dr. Walter / Ramah 

Adamson, Mr. & Mrs. Brian /Gay Venture 

Allen, Mrs. J.R. /Ouareau 

Allman, James / Wanapitei 

Ambrose, Earl /Scott Mission 

Ayers, John /Katonim 

Babcock, Mr. & Mrs. W.J. /Richildaca 

Ball, Miss Kim /Ont. Girl Guide Camp 

Bandalene, Kal /Tamakwa 

Bell, Larry /Robin Hood 

Bernstein, John /Northland B'nai B'rith 

Black stock, J.B. / Mazinaw 

Bogensberger, Joseph / Hockey Opportunity 

Bowen, Rev. David M. / Kuriou 

Breski, Miss Jessica /Cherith 

Bury, Malcolm / Y.M.C.A. Metro Toronto 

Butters, Mr. & Mrs. H.W . / Tanamakoon 

Calitis, Rev. F. /Sidrabene 

Cannon, Nancy J. / Mazinaw 

Carrol, Ghent /Kiwanis 

Cassidy, Rev. D.G. / Kin tail 

Chamberlain, Miss Chloe /Crystal Springs 

Charron, Ron / K itchener-Waterloo YMCA 

Christie, Tasso /Anishnawbe 

Christensen, C.R. /Bolton 

Cochlin, Jim & Joan / Calumet 

Colbran, Carl /Allsaw 

Cole, Ted / Walden 

Coles, Roger L. / Guelph Kiwanis Belwood 

Cooper, K.J. / Haliburton Scout Reserve 

Danson, John /Winnebagoe 

Davis, Mrs. Marion /Quin-Mo-Lac 

Davis, Peggee /Podunk 

Dawson, Buck /Ak-o-Mac & Chikopi 

Dewar, Ronald /Manitomono 

Dick, Karl /Silver Lake 

Dobec, Mrs. E. /Mi-A-Kon-Da 

Downer, Douglas W. /Pauwating 

Downey, Mrs. Judith Codd / COPY 

Dugan, John E. / Genesee 

Dunnigan, Miss Ann / YWCA (Metro Toronto) 

Edwards, Rob / Wanapitei 

Farrell, Mrs. N.L. /Mi-A-Kon-Da 

Faulkner, Murray /Queen Elizabeth 

Federau, Gunther /Hockley Valley 

Feigenbaum, Elaine /Kadimah 

Feinstein, David / Tri-Bell 

Fine, Ban /Forest Valley 

Fisk, Robert /Blue Heron 

Fleury, Bruce F./ Connemara 

Florian, Mr. & Mrs. N\ck/Onondaga/Wahcahmie 

Forden, Mrs. C.E. /Kiawa 

Franken, Louis /Moshava 

Fraser, Mrs. V. /Etobicoke Pks. & Rec'n. 

Gaffney, Mrs. Libby /Ottawa YM-YWCA 

Genge, Mr. & Mrs. D.J. / Quin-Mo Lac 

Gilchrist, Mr. & Mrs. J. /Glen Bernard 

Gillespie, Peter /Kawartha 

Gillis, Vince R. /Shadow Lake 

Goodman, Al /New Moon 

Hall, Jackie /Kohai 

Hall, Mrs. Shirley/Onf. Soc. Crippled Children 
Hambly, Sam G. / Allsaw 


INDEX OF CAMP DIRECTORS 

Hannon, Steve / Kennebec 

Harmer, Rev. Ronald /Kwasind 

Harris, Mr. & Mrs. Bruce /Kawabi 

Harris, Mrs. Diane /Naorca 

Harris, Larry / Gesher 

Harrison, Mr. & Mrs. C.F. / Otterdale 

Harvison, Glen /Wigwasati 

Hazell, Mr. & Mrs. \-\aro\d/Ro//ing Acres Ranch 

Hersh, Mrs. Rose E. / Massad 

Hodgins, Bruce W. /Wanapitei 

Hopkins, Mrs. L. /Bayview Glen 

James, Andrew F. /Dorion 

Jeffrey, Mr. & Mrs. L.E. / Frontier Ranch 

Johnstone, Mr. & Mrs. Ron /White Bear 

Joyce. Mrs. Ron / Big Canoe 

Kates, Eugene / Arowhon 

Kay, Mrs. Eleanor / YWCA (Metro Toronto) 

Keck, Mrs. Ursula / Hilltop 

Kennedy, Rev. Kyran / Brebeuf 

Kerr, K. Grant / United Church 

Knudeson, Mr. & Mrs. David /Langskib 

Kronick, Joseph / White Pine 

Labbett, Mr. & Mrs. E.C. /Oconto 

Laighton, Elinor R. / Unicamp 

Lambshead, Alan / Kakeka 

Latimer, Mr. & Mrs. J. /Kilcoo 

Lawrenson, Maj. Margaret/Jackson's Point « 1 

Leach, Charles / lawah 

Lee, Miss Ethel /Mini-Yo-We 

Lee, Morley / Pioneer 

Leggatt, Mrs. W. /Onawaw 

Lewis, Richard P. /Wabun 

Lowden, Miss Joan / Glen Bernard 

Lowes, Mr. & Mrs. B. / Timberlane 

Ludwig, Mr. & Mrs. Woody / Bil O-Wood 

Lustig, Ben / Winnabagoe 

MacLean, D.W. / Voyageur 

Maierovitz, M. /Moshava 

Maloney, Nell / Blue Heron 

Mamane, Gilbert /D'ete 

Marshall, Capt. H R. /Newport 

Marshall, Mrs. Maureen /Owaissa 

Martin, Thomas /Couchiching 

Mason, Morley / B'nai B'rith of Ottawa 

Massie, Rev. B.R.H. /Ekon 

Matthews. Austin / K/tchikewana 

McDowell, Rev. E.L. /Glenbrook 

McEwen, Doug / Wa-Sa-Ah-Bun 

McLean, Mrs. Janet Pearson / Tapatoo 

McLean, P.S. /Mazinaw 

MacLeod, Don /Columbus 

Meslin, Gord & Judy /Maple Glen 

M inter, John / Opemikon 

Moore, K.D. /G/enhuron 

Moore, Miss Elizabeth / Whitby YMCA 

Moore. Mrs. Susan / Kelso 

Morawetz, Bruno /Ponacka 

Nashman, Mrs. A. /Wahanowin 

Nashman, Mr. & Mrs. H.B. / Wahanowin 

Nelson, Rev. C.R. / Crusaders 

Nicol, Miss Patricia /Kelso 

Ouellette, Gary R. /Shadow Lake 

Paterson, Mrs. M. / Kitchener-Waterloo YWCA 


Pearse, Mr. & Mrs. Jack /Tawingo 

Perkins, Wayne /Hamilton YMCA 

Perlmutar, Jeff /Forest Valley 

Petrushchak, John /Haliburton Hockey Haven 

Pickering, Ralph /Simpresca 

Platz, Sue /Cambridge 

Prewitt, Mrs. Ann R. /Northway 

Pringle, Don / YMCA (Metro Toronto) 

Reimers, Fred A. /Keewaydin 

Reesor-McDowell, Andrew / Fraser Lake 

Rhamey, Mr. & Mrs. A.M. /Big Doe 

Richardson, Stanley A. /Samac 

Ritchie, Henry /Arrowhead 

Rogers, Miss Carolyne / United Church 

Rowland, Mrs. J.R. / Rol/in: Acres 

Rushton, Mr. & Mrs. Paul / Trail finder 

Russell, Mr. & Mrs. John / Circle R 

Sands, David / lllahee 

Saul, Frank / Hockley Valley 

Say nor, John /Mini-Yo-We 

Seitz, Stan / Summer/and 

Shackleton, W.F. /Rainbow Valley 

Simmons, John / Lake Joseph Holiday Centre 

Sinclair, Ian / United Church 

Small, John / Maple Leaf 

Smith, Mrs. D.T. / Artaban-Bolton 

Smith, Ken S. / Fair Glen 

Sneyd, Carl /Chippewa 

Sneyd, Dr. R.F. /Manitomono 

Snider, J.A. /Menesetung 

Spencer, Rev. Robt. /Iona 

St. Amour, Jan /Knotty Knoll 

Statten, Dr. Taylor / Taylor Statten 

Statten, Taylor /Wapomeo 

Stovin, Mrs. Ruth /Marygrove 

Swan, Rev. Tom /Kakeka 

Sylvas, Miss Helen / Bonita Glen 

Taller, Rhoda /Gypsy Glen 

Tappenden, Rochard /Adanac 

Thrall, Roy /Pathfinder 

Tompkins, Jean /Big Canoe 

Van Wagner, Peter F. / Nommingue 

Varey, J. Douglas / Moorelands-Kawagama 

Walbank, Mr. & Mrs. Ron /Swallowdale 

Wakefield, Mr. & Mrs. L.K. /Pleasant Bay 

Walter, Miss D. / Ont. Camp Leadership Centre 

Watters, W. / Orr-Walton 

Weafer, Bud / Chippewa 

Weber, Brent / Kitchener /Waterloo YMCA 

Westfall, David /Kitchener/Waterloo YMCA 

Wilkinson, John H. /Keswick Youth 

Will, Allan /John Island 

Wilson, Stuart C. /Medeba 

Wilson, W.G. / Huronda 

Wipper, Mr. & Mrs. Doug/Youth Outdoors Unlimited 

Wipper, Mr. & Mrs. Kirk / Kandalore 

Wise, Mr. & Mrs. Ben /Manitou-Wabing 

Wolfe, Gordon /Wabikon 

Wood, Richard M. /Minwassin 

Wrightson, Frank P. / Wigwasati 

Yard, Mr. & Mrs. W.E. /Ho/lyburn 

Zifkin, David /Shalom 


t 


1 


56 



ONTARIO 


ACCREDITED MEMBER CAMPS 

The resident and day camps in this section have passed the Desirable Camping Practices established by the Association. 


ADANAC 

90 boys 9 - 16 

Richard Tappenden 

2920 Huntington Road 

Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A. 44120 — 

(216)991-2920 

4 weeks — 8 weeks 

Activities: Canoe trips; Skiing, Archery, 
Riflery; Nature 

Summer address: Evansville, Manitoulin 
Island, Ont. POP 1 E0 


ARTABAN-BOLTON 
(Anglican Church of Canada) 

88 boys or girls 8-15 

Mrs. Donald T. Smith 

801 — 15 Erskine Ave., Toronto 315, Ont. 

(416) 487-0578 

$50 per week; Pioneer $40 per 10 days 
Pioneer 10 days June; Boys July; girls Aug. 
Activities: Canoeing; Archery; Hikes; Swim; 
Sports; A & C 

Summer address: R.R.1, Bolton, Ont. 


B'NAl B'RITH OF OTTAWA 

350 boys & girls 7-15 (co-ed) 

Morley Mason 

34 Elm bank Cresc., Ottawa, Ont. K2G 3P6 
(613) 225-6787 

$650 per 7 weeks (non Ottawans); 

$550 per 7 weeks (Ottawans) 

7 weeks (two 3%-week periods) 

Activities: Skiing; Swim Pool; Gymnasium; 
Tennis, Riding 

Summer address: R.R.1, Quyon, P.Q. 

(819) 458-2660 


AK-O-MAK 

84 girls 9 - 16 

Rose Mary & Buck Dawson 
5811 N.E. 15th Avenue 
Fort Lauderdale, Florida 33308, U.S.A. 
(305) 772-7859 
$765 per period 
One 7-week period only 
Activities: Competitive Swimming; Com¬ 
petitive Athletics 

Summer address: Ahmic Harbour, Ontario 
(705) 387-3810 


ALLSAW 

72 boys and/or girls 7-15 
Sam G. Hambly 

9 Calais Ave., Downsview, Ont. M3M 1N3 
(416) 249-4517 


Carl Colbran 

33 De/oraine Dr., Brama/ea, Ont. L6T 1T6 
(416) 459-5137 

$185 per 2 weeks; $365 per 4 weeks; 

$545 per 6 weeks; $725 per 8 weeks 
Boys July; Co-ed August 
Activities: Environment; Swim; Canoe; 
Orienteering; Fitness 

Summer address: R.R. 2, Haliburton, Ont. 

(705) 457-1738 


ANISHNAWBE 

40 boys and girls 11-15 (co-ed) 

Tasso Christie 
P.O. Box 670 

Little Current, Ont. POP 1K0 
(705) 368-3133 

$950 per 8 weeks; $500 per 4 weeks; 

$260 per 2 weeks 

Activities: Canoeing; Scuba; Sailing, Climbing; 
Skiing 


AROWHON 

220 boys & girls 7-16 (co-ed) 

Eugene H. Kates 

147 Davenport Rd., Toronto, Ont. M5R 1J1 
(416) 923-7176 
8 weeks $1100; 

4 weeks $650 

Activities: Swim; Sail; Canoe & Trips; 
Riding; Tennis 

Summer address: Located in Algonquin 
Park, Ontario 
(705) 633-5651 


BAYVIEW GLEN (Day Camp) ^BOLTON 

600 boys and girls 2-11 (Family Services Association) 


Mrs. L. Doreen Hopkins 

411 Lawrence Ave. E., Don Mills, Ont. 

(416) 449-7740 

$500 per 8 weeks; $270 per 4 weeks 
Activities: Swim; Nat.; Crafts; Music; Drama; 

Pottery; Overnight 
Summer address: As above. 


BIG DOE 

75 Boys 8-15 

Mr. & Mrs. Aubrey M. Rhamey 
95 Toynbee Trail, Scarborough, Ontario 
(416) 261-4111 

$790 per 7 weeks; $450 per 4 weeks July; 
$350 per 3 weeks August; $250 per 2 weeks 
August 

Activities: Aquatics; Trip; Ride; Crafts; 

Sports; Shoot; Archery 
Summer address: Burks Falls, Ontario 
(705) 382-6540 


BIL-O-WOOD 

120 boys & girls 6-18 (co-ed) 

Mr. & Mrs. Woody Ludwig 

4509 Tacoma Blvd., Okemo, Michigan 48864 

(517) 349-4435 

$875 per 8 weeks; $460 per 4 weeks 
Activities: Athletics; Aquatics; Tripping; 

Riding; Crafts; Drama 
Summer address: Blind River, Ontario 


BLUE HERON 

30 boys and girls (co-ed) 

Robert Fisk 

4200 Harris Hill Rd., Williamsville, 

New York 14221 
(716) 633-6193 
Nell Maloney 

1414 Bryn Mawr, Dayton, Ohio 45406 
(513) 275-6976 
$450 per period 
Three 3-week periods 
Activities: Swim; Canoe Tripping; Natural 
Science Program 

Summer address: Port Loring, Ont. P0H 1Y0 
(705) 757-2817 


392 boys & girls plus mothers with children 

C.R. Christensen 

22 Wellesley St. E., Toronto, Ont. M4Y 1G3 
(416) 922-3126 

Fees — according to ability to pay 

Four 12-day periods 

Activities: Swimming; Drama; A & C; 

Landsports 

Summer address: Bolton, Ontario 
(416) 857-1531 

ILLAHEE 

(Family Services Association) 

(Medically Handicapped Children) 

52 boys and girls 7-15 (co-ed) 

David Sands 

22 Wellesley St. East, Toronto, Ont. M4Y 1G3 
(416)922-3126 

Fees — according to ability to pay 
Two 3-week periods 

Activities: Aquatics; Tripping; Canoeing; 
Campcraft; A & C; Golf 

Summer address: 110 Ontario St., Cobourg, Ont. 
(416) 372-7011 


BONITA GLEN 

(Girl Guides of Metro Toronto) 

(Girl Guides only) 

160 girls 10-18 

Miss Helen E. Sylvas 
50 Merton St., Toronto, Ont. M4S 1 A3 
(416) 487-5281 ext. 28 
Summer address: Hawkestone, Ontario 
(705) 487-5483 


BREBEUF 

(Catholic Youth Organization) 

200 boys or 200 girls 7-14 

Rev. Kyran Kennedy 

20 Idlewood Ave., Hamilton, Ont. L8T 1 V9 
(416) 388-2200 

$90 per 12 day period; $55 per 7 day period 
Boys: July 
Girls: August 

Activities: Campouts; Canoeing; Archery; 
Swimming; Crafts 

Summer address: R.R.1, Rockwood, Ont. 

(519) 856-4671 


ARROWHEAD (Day Camp) 

(Tent City Association) 

125 boys & girls 3-15 (co-ed) 

Henry Ritchie 

7 Raeburn Ave., Downsview, Ont. M3H 1G6 
(416) 633-1646 

$300 per season 

8 weeks 

Activities: Skiing; Sailing; Swimming; 

A & C; Drama 

Summer Address: Big Cedar Point P.O., Ont. 
(705) 456-2938 


BLUE WATER 
(Blue Water Conference) 

150 boys & girls 8-17 (co-ed) 

Roy M. Martin 

141 Grand E., Box 625, Chatham, Ontario 
(519) 352-3470 

Ages 8-12 - $49.50; 13 & up - $59.50 
Camp for each age group 6 days Sun. to Sat. 
Activities: Skiing; Pool; Canoeing; Archery; 
Riding; Fishing 

Summer address: R.R.3, Wallaceburg, Ont. 

(519) 627-2732 


CALUMET 

160 boys & girls 6-16 (co-ed) 

Jim & Joan Coch/in 

Box 405, Mark dale, Ont. NOC 1 HO 

(519) 986-3323 

4 weeks July $425; 4 weeks August $400; 
2 week periods available 
Activities: Swim; Sail; Ski; Canoe; Shoot; 
Ride; Grow 

Summer address: R.R.2, Minden, Ont. 
K0M 2K0 
(705) 489-2298 


57 





ONTARIO 


CAMBRIDGE (YWCA) (Day Camp) 

70 boys and girls 7-12 (co-ed) 

Sue Platz 

40 Thorne St., Cambridge, Ont. 

(519) 621-5300 
$30.00 per week 
4 sessions of 2 weeks each 
Activities: Canoeing; Red Cross Swimming; 
Campcrafts; Archery 

CHERITH AT WALKERTON 
(Pioneer Girls) 

85 girls 8-18 

Miss Jessica L. Breski 

144 Glenmore Rd., Toronto, Ont. M4L 3M4 
(416) 690-4446 

$43 per 6 day period; $90 per 2 week period 
Eight 6-day periods or Four 2-week periods 
Activities: Riding; Swimming; Bible Study; 
Canoeing 

Summer address: Box 142, Walkerton, Ont. 
(519) 881-2448 

CHIKOPI 

80 boys 9-15 

Rose Mary and Buch Dawson 

5811 N.E. 15th Avenue 

Fort Lauderdale, Florida 33308, U.S.A. 

(305) 772-7859 
Resident Director 
Pat Hay hurst 
$765 per period 
One 7-week period only 
Activities: Competitive Swimming; Competi¬ 
tive Athletics 

Summer address: R.R.2, Magnetawan, Ont. 
(705) 387-3811 

CHIPPEWA (Day Camp) 

(Hamilton VMCA) 

200 boys & girls 7-14 (co-ed) 

Carl Sneyd 

79 James Street S., Hamilton, Ont. L8P 2Z1 
(416) 529-7102 
$36 per 2 weeks 
Four 2-week periods 
Activities: Crafts; Swimming; Canoeing; 
Archery 

Summer address: As above. 


CHIPPEWA (Day Camp) 

(Thunder Bay Parks & Rec'n Dept.) 

1,000 boys and girls 
W. Bud Weafer 

City Hall Annex, Thunder Bay, Ont. P7E 5V3 
(807) 623-2711 
$14 — 2 weeks 

July 1 - August 30, introduction to camping 

CIRCLE R RANCH 

50 boys and girls 8-15 (co-ed) 

Mr. & Mrs. John Russell 

P.O. Box 85, Delaware, Ont. NOL 1EO 

(519) 471-3799 

$275 per 2 weeks 

Four 2-week periods 

Activities: Western Riding; Pottery; A & C; 

Canoeing; Swimming 
Summer address: as above 

COLUMBUS BOYS' CAMP 

(Knight of Columbus Toronto Council) 

(For under-privileged boys) 

240 boys 8-15 
Don McLeod, 

582 Sherbourne St., Toronto, Ont. M4X 1L4 
(416)922-2114 

Fee — According to ability to pay 
Five 10-day periods 

Activities: Tripping; Canoeing; Handicraft; 
Swimming 

Summer address: 4 Mile Point, Orillia, Ont. 
(705) 326-2433 


CONNEMARA 
24 boys 7-14; 24 girls 7-14 
Bruce & Patti Fleury 

52 Mid Pines Rd., Scarborough, Ont. M1G2L8 
(416) 439-7654 
$175 per 2 week session 
Two sessions/2 weeks; one session/1 week 
Activities: Environment; Swim; Canoe; Ski; 
Crafts: Pony Care 

Summer address: R.R.1, Kinmount, Ont. 

(705) 488-2938 


COUCHICHING 
(Anglican Church of Canada) 

130 boys or girls 7-15 
Rev. Thomas Martin 

2920 Bloor St. W., Toronto, Ont. M8X 1B6 

(416) 239-3340 

Donald C. Bradbury 

64 Brentwood Rd. N., Toronto, Ont. 

(416) 239-7317 
Fees on request. 

9, 10, 14, 18 or 32 days 

August camp for sufferers of Cystic Fibrosis 

only. 

Activities: Swim; Canoe; Sail; A & C; Camp- 
craft; Christian Education 
Summer address: Longford Mills, Ontario 
L0L 1 K0 
(705) 325-3428 


CRUSADERS BIBLE CLUB CAMP 
(Bible Club Movement) 

110 boys & girls 7-15 (co-ed) 

Reverend C. R. Nelson 

P.O. Box 374, Oshawa, Ontario 

(416) 725-9378 

$45 weekly children's camp; $50 teen week 
Six 1-week periods 

Activities: Swimming; Sports; Missions; 
Archery; Crafts 

Summer address: R.R.3, Omemee, Ontario 
(705) 799-5570 


CRYSTAL SPRINGS 

(Bible Club Movement of Canada) 

90 boys & girls 7-14 (co-ed) 

Miss Chloe Chamberlain 
Box 4052, Station "D", Hamilton, Ont. 
(416) 634-9304 
$35 per week 
Seven 1-week periods 
Activities: Archery; Landsports; Swim; 
Canoeing; Cookouts 

Summer address: R.R.2, Brantford, Ont. 

(519) 484-2481 


DE LASALLE 
190 boys 6-15 
Brother Edgar 

5 Avonwick Gate, Don Mills, Ont. M3A 2M5 
(416) 444-7563 

$750 per 7 weeks; $460 per 4 weeks July; 
$240 per 2 weeks; $360 per 3 weeks August; 
$250 per 2 weeks August 
Activities: Swim; Boating; Skiing; Riding; 
Go-Karts; A&C 

Summer address: Jackson's Point, Ontario 
(416) 722-3231 


D'ETE (French Day Camp) 

(Toronto Montessori Schools) 

150 Boys & girls 4-10 
Gilbert A. Mamane 

8569 Bay view Ave., Thornhill, Ont. L3T 2A 1 
(416) 889-6882 

$250 per 6 weeks; $135 per 3 weeks 
Activities: French; Swimming; A & C; 

Nature; Sports 
Summer address: As above 


DORION BIBLE CAMP 
(Canadian Sunday School Mission) 

90 boys and girls 6-16 (co-ed) 

Andrew F. James 
Dor ion, Ontario POT 1K0 
(416) 857-2331 
$30 per week 

Activities: Bible Study; Bush Survival; 

Archery; Crafts 

EKON 

(Jesuit Fathers of Upper Canada) 

70 boys 8-16 

Rev. B.R.H. Massie, S.J. 

Regis College, 3425 Bayview Ave., 

Wil/owda/e, Ont. M2M 3S5 
(416) 225-8823 
$100 per week 

Two 2-week sessions; one 3-week session 
Activities: Swim; Sail; Canoeing; Archery; 

Skiing; Nature 

Summer address: R.R.1, Rosseau, Ontario 
(705) 732-4440 

ENDOBANAH (Boy Scouts & Girl Guides) 
(Registered Cubs, Scouts & Girl Guides) 

72 boys 7-14 years, 72 girls 10-15 years 
Mr. Robert T. Wright 
48 Bedford Park Ave., 

Toronto, Ont. M5M 1H9 
(416) 485-7920 
Mrs. Mary Lane 
269 G/engrove Ave. West 
Toronto, Ont. M5N 1W3 
(416) 485-4713 

$125 per 2-wks (boys) July, two 2-wk periods 
$110 per 2-wks (girls) Aug., two 2-wk periods 
Activities: Swim; Canoeing; Sail; Arts & 

Crafts; Tripping 

Summer address: Norland, Ont. 

(705) 454-3701 

ETOBICOKE PARKS & RECREATION 
(Day Camps) 

Mrs. V. Fraser 

Civic Centre, Etobicoke, Ont. M9C2Y2 
(416) 626-4161 ext. 162 

Adventure 

24 boys and girls 13-15 (co-ed) 

$30 per period 
Four 2-week periods 

Activities: Campcraft; Backpacking; Climb¬ 
ing; Orienteering 

Claireville 

275 boys and girls 7-12 

$30 per period 

Four 2-week periods 

Activities: Campcraft; Archery; Hiking; 

Nature; A&C; Overnights 

Wyandotte 

(For children with special needs) 

40 boys and girls 7-16 (co-ed) 

$30 per period 

Four 2-week periods 

Activities: Campcraft; Archery; Swim; 

A & C; Trips; Overnights 

EVERTON SCOUT FOREST 
(North Waterloo District Council — 

Boy Scouts) 

500 boys 8-18; 30 boys & girls 14-18 (co-ed) 
J.W. Butler 

844 Frederick St., Kitchener, Ont. N2B 2B8 
(519) 742-3072 
Fees variable 

Year round weeks or weekends 
Activities: Hiking; Pioneering; Canoeing; 
Swimming; Crafts 

Summer address: R.R.4, Rockwood, Ont. 

(519) 856-9731 


58 



ONTARIO 


FAIR GLEN 

(Associated Gospel Churches of 
Canada) 

85 boys & girls 8-15 

Ken S. Smith 

3628 Glen wood Place, Niagara Falls, Ont. 

(416) 354-7248 

$51.50 per week or camp period 
Junior camp July; teen camp August 
Activities: Swimming; Water Ski; Canoe; 

Crafts; Sports 

Summer address: R.R.3. Beaverton, Ont. 

(705) 426-9960 

FOREST VALLEY (Day Camp) 

650 boys and girls 314-15 (co-ed) 

Bert Fine and Jeff Per/mutar 
60 Blue Forest Drive 
Downsview, Ont. M3H 4W5 
(416) 633-6500 

$666 per season; $365 July, $340 Aug. periods 
Activities: Swim; Ice Hockey; Music; Tennis; 

Nature; Landsports 
Summer address: As above 

FRASER LAKE 

150 boys and girls 9-15 (co-ed) 

Andrew Reesor-McDowell 

40 Shaw ford Crescent 

Scarborough, Ont. MIG 1 V8 

(416) 439-3104 

$60 per week 

4, 2 or 1 -week periods 

Activities: Swimming; Canoeing; Ponies; 

Crafts; Outtrips 

Summer address: Bancroft, Ontario 

FRONTIER RANCH 

124 boys or girls 7-16 

Lyle and Florence Jeffrey 

11 Mulvihill Crescent, Arnprior, Ontario 

(613) 623-2160 

$210 per 2 weeks 

One 2-week period boys, August 

Three 2-week periods girls July & August. 

Activities: Riding; Swimming; Canoeing; 

Archery; Crafts; Riflery 
Summer address: R.R.2, White Lake, Ont. 

(613) 623-3577 

GAY VENTURE 

160 girls 7-15 

Mr. & Mrs. Brian Adamson 
94 Aldershot Crescent 
V\/illowdale, Ont. M2P 1M1 
(416) 223-3286 

$985 per 8 weeks; $500 per 4 weeks; 

$265 per 2 weeks August. 

Activities: Swim; Ski; Sail; Canoe; Tripping; 

A & C; Drama 

Summer address: Haliburton, Ont. K0M ISO 
(705) 286-1799 

GENESEE 

60 boys & girls 7-14 (co-ed) 

John E. Dugan 

843 Palmerston Ave. Toronto, Ont. M6G 2R8 
(416) 534-8461 

$100 per 2 weeks; $55 per week 
8 weeks 

Activities: Archery; Tripping; Swim; Music; 
Canoe; Crafts 

Summer address: Powassan, Ontario 

GESHER 

(Dror Zionist Youth Organization) 

150 boys and girls 9-16 (co-ed) 

Larry Harris 

Box 5288, Station "F” Ottawa, Ont. K2C3H5 
(613) 225-6557 

$595 per 6 weeks; $340 per 3 weeks 
One 6 week period. One 3 week period 
Activities: Skiing; Hiking; Discussions; 

Sports; Culture 

Summer address: R.R.1, Cloyne, Ont. K0H 1K0 
(613) 336-2583 


GLEN BERNARD 

180 girls 6-16 

Mr. & Mrs. John Gilchrist 

6a Wychwood Park, Toronto, Ont. M6G 2V5 

(416) 532-3403 

Miss Joan Lowden 

110 Heath St. E., Toronto, Ont. M4T 1S4 
(416) 487-8548 

$1 000 per 8 weeks; $525 per 4 weeks 
Activities: Riding; Swimming; Tripping; 
Sailing 

Summer address: Sundridge, Ontario 
(705) 384-7062 


GLENBROOK (Day Camp) 

250 boys & girls 5-10 (co-ed) 

E.L. McDowell 
40 Shaw ford Crescent 
Scarborough, Ont. MIG 1V8 
(416) 439-3104 
$30 per week 
1 to 9 weeks 

Activities: Swimming; Ponies; Crafts; Hiking; 

Sports; Boating; Hay rides 
Summer address: As above. 


GLENHURON (The Salvation Army) 

100 boys & girls from 8 years (co-ed) 

Captain K.D. Moore 

Box 875, Station "B", London, Ont. N6A 4Z3 

(519) 433-6106 

$23 to $35 per period 

1-week to 10-days 

Activities: Canoeing; Climbing; Archery; 

Music 

Summer address: R.R.1, Bayfield, Ontario 
(519) 482-7232 


GUELPH KIWANIS CAMP BELWOOD 
(Ontario Ass'n for Mentally Retarded) 
90 boys, girls & adults from 7 years (co-ed) 
25 Grandriver, Paris, Ontario 
Adult Lodge $150 3 weeks; 

Teens' and children's camp $100 2 weeks 
Activities: Boating; Skating; Archery; 

Hiking; Cycling 

Summer address: Belwood, Ontario 
(519) 843-1240 


HALIBURTON HOCKEY HAVEN 
240 boys 7-17 
John Petrushchak 
$150 per week 

Activities: Hockey; Skiing; Swim; Ball-hockey; 
Go-Carting 

Summer address: Box 508, Haliburton, Ont. 
(705) 457-2392 


HALIBURTON SCOUT RESERVE 
(Boy Scouts, Greater Toronto Region) 
(Boy Scouts only) 

600 boys 11-17 
K.J. Cooper 

316 Bloor St. W., Toronto, Ont. M5S 1W5 
(416) 925-3425 

Summer address: Box 450, Haliburton, Ont. 


HILLTOP 

72 boys 8< girls 5-14 (co-ed) 

Mrs. Ursula Keck 

P.O. Box 44, Dundas, Ont. L9H 5E7 
(416) 627-3783 

$660 per 8 weeks; $340 per 4 weeks; 
$1 75 per 2 weeks 

Activities: Swimming; Canoeing; Art; 

Campcraft; Riding 
Summer address: P.O. Bala, Ontario 
(705) 762-5295 


HOCKEY OPPORTUNITY 

140 boys 6-16 

Joseph Bogensberger 

Box 208, Sundridge, Ont. P0A 1Z0 

(705) 386-7702 

$128 per week 

9 weeks 

Activities: Hockey and other sports 
Summer address: As above. 

HOCKLEY VALLEY (including year 
round Outdoor Education Centre) 
(German Culture & Language) 

90 boys & girls 8-14 (co-ed) 

Frank Saul 

90 Roywood Dr., Don Mills, Ont. M3A 2E1 
(416) 444-5929 
Gunther Federau 

646 Weber St. E., Kitchener, Ont. N2H 1H2 
(519) 745-0638 

$168 per 2 weeks; $304 per 4 weeks 
Activities: Canoeing; Nature; Crafts; Swim; 
Hiking; Riding 

Summer address: Orangeville, Ont. 

(519) 941-4560 

HOLLYBURN 
(including Winter Groups) 

98 boys & girls 7-14; plus year round groups 
Mr. & Mrs. W.E. (Ted) Yard 
Rosseau, Ont. P0C 1J0 
(705) 732-4389 

Toronto Telephone (416) 261-1431 
July: 4 weeks $445; August: 3 weeks $335, 
2 weeks $225 

July 4 weeks; August 3 weeks and 2 weeks 
Weekend group fees on request 
Activities: Swim; Canoeing; Sail; Tripping; 

Woodcraft; Tennis 
Summer address: As above. 


HURONDA (Diabetic Ass'n of Ont.) 

80 diabetic boys & girls 8-15 (co-ed) 

Mr. K. Wade 

R.R. 1, Huntsville, Ont. POA 1K0 
(705) 789-4931 
$160 per 2 weeks 
Four 2-week periods 

Activities: Aquatics; Canoeing; Tripping; 
Riding; Sailing 

Summer address: R.R.1, Huntsville, Ont. 

(705) 789-7153 


IAWAH 

(Christian Youth Centre) 

85 boys 10-16; 85 girls 10-16; 80 boys 8t 
girls 7-9 (co-ed) 

Charles W. Leach 

260 Barrie Street, Kingston, Ont. K7L 3K7 
(613) 548-8110 

$90 per 2 weeks; $70 per 11 days 
Boys & girls camps 2 weeks; Jr. camp 11 
days; Family camp 14 days; Professional 
Renewal Weekend. 

Activities: Swim; Canoeing; Canoe Trips; 
Campcraft; Riding 

Summer address: Box 103, Westport, Ont. 

(613) 273-5621 

IONA 

(Toronto-Kingston Synod, Pres. Church) 

48 boys 9-17 or girls 9-17 or co-ed 9-17 

Rev. Robert Spencer 

R.R.2, Puslinch, Ont. NOB 2JO 

(519) 848-3004 

$50 per 10 days 

10 day camps, 5-10 day canoe trips, 
June-August. 

Activities: Wilderness Camping; Canoe Trips; 
Bible Study 

Summer address: Bala, Ontario 

(705) 762-5129 


59 



ONTARIO 


JACKSON'S POINT CAMP #1 
(The Salvation Army Family 
Services Dept.) 

108 boys & girls 8-12 

Major Margaret Lawrenson 

148 Jarvis St., Toronto, Ont. M5B 2B5 

(416) 366-9941 ext. 55 

$7 per period 

7 day periods 

Activities: Canoe; Swim; Crafts; Archery; 

Overnight Camp; Sports 
Summer address: Jacksons's Point, Ont. 

(705) 722-3501 

JOHN ISLAND (Sudbury YMCA) 

100 boys and/or girls 7-16 

Mr. & Mrs. Allan Will 

185 Elm St. E., Sudbury, Ont. P3B INI 

(705) 674-8315 

$165 per 2 week period 

1 boys and 1 co-ed July; 1 girls and family 

August. 

Activities: Canoeing; Outtrips; Cycling; 

Overland 360; Sail 
Summer address: Spanish, Ontario 

KADIMAH (Day Camp) 

(Hamilton Jewish Community Centre) 

185 boys & girls 4-14 (co-ed) 

Elaine Feigenbaum 

57 Delaware Ave., Hamilton, Ont. L8M 1T6 
(416) 528-8577 

Members $200 per season; $120 July; 

$105 August 

Non-Members $260 season; $160 July; 

$145 August 

Activities: Canoeing; Crafts; Swim; Land- 
sports; Judaica 

KAKEKA (Christian Service Brigade) 
125 boys 8-18 
Alan Lambshead 

1254 Plains Rd. E., Burlington, Ont. L7S 1W6 
(416) 634-1841 
Rev. Tom Swan 

1130 Queens Avenue, Apt. 401, Oakville, 

Ontario L6H 2B5 

$53 per week 

Six 1-week periods 

Activities: Swimming; Canoeing; Riflery; 
Archery; Outtrips 

Summer address: Box 436, Haliburton, 
Ontario K0M ISO 

KANDALORE CAMPS (including year 
round Outdoor Learning Centres) 

10 Douglas Ores., Toronto, Ont. M4W2E7 
(416)924-4856 

Kandalore 

170 boys 6-16 

Mr. & Mrs. Kirk Wipper 

$885 per 8 weeks; $485 per 4 weeks; 

$285 per 2 weeks 

Outdoor Centre fees on request 

Activities: Trips; Swim; Canoeing; Climb; 

Wildlife; A & C; Marks 
Summer address: R.R.1, Minden, Ont. 

K0M 2K0 
(705) 489-2512 

Youth Outdoors Unlimited 
(Year Round) 

25 candidates 14 to adult (co-ed) 

Mr. & Mrs. Doug Wipper 
Box 1678, New Liskeard, Ont. POJ IPO 
$495 per 4-weeks; $940 per 8-weeks 
Activities: (Summer) Solos; Survival; 

Wilderness Canoe Trips; Rock 
Climbing; Canoe & Snow Shoe 
Building; Authentic Aboriginal 
Crafts & Technology 
(Winter) Cross-Country Skiing; 
Wilderness Camping with Dog 
Sled Team; Snowshoeing 
Summer address: As above. 


KATONIM (Day Camp) 

(Balfour Beach Association) 

150 boys & girls 3-14 (co-ed) 

John Ayers 

50-22 Bridletowne Circle, Agincourt, Ont. 

(416) 499-0206 

Fees variable between members and non¬ 
members. 

8, 4 and 2-week periods 
Activities: Swim; Canoe; Sail; Skiing; 
Trampoline, Tennis 

Summer address: Roches Point, Ontario 

KAWABI 

112 boys & girls 7-15 (co-ed) 

Mr. & Mrs. Bruce Harris 
92 Squire Baker's Lane, 

Markham, Ont. L3P 3H2 
(416) 294-4451 

$420 per 4 weeks; $215 per 2 weeks; 

$800 per 8 weeks 

Activities: Swim; Sail; Canoe; Archery; Ski; 
Fence; Crafts 

Summer address: R.R.2, Minden, Ontario 
(705) 489-2510 

KAWARTHA (Peterborough YMCA) 

72 boys & girls 8-15 (co-ed) 

Peter Gillespie 

475 George St. N., Peterborough, 

Ontario K9H 3R6 

(705) 742-5458 

$120 per 2-week period 

Three 2-week periods 

Activities: Canoeing; Sailing; Crafts; 

Archery; Nature 
Summer address: P.O. Box 250. 

Lakefield, Ontario 
(705) 652-7571 

KEEWAYDIN 

140 boys 10-19 

Fred A. Reimers 

4240 Brook dale St., Jackson, Miss. 39206, 
U.S.A. 

(601) 353-6233 
$975 per 6 weeks 

Activities: Canoe; Trips; Wilderness Camping; 
Sports 

Summer address: Temagami, Ontario 

KELSO (Day Camp) 

(Peel Region YMCA/YWCA) 

290 boys & girls 6-12 

Miss Patricia Nicol 

247 McMurchy Ave. S., Brampton, 

Ontario L6H 1Z4 
451-1400 

$50 per 2-week period 

Four 2-week periods 

Activities: Swimming; Hiking; Crafts; 

Nature Lore; Canoeing 
Summer address: As above. 

KESWICK YOUTH CAMP 
(Canadian Keswick Conference) 

250 boys & girls 8-16 
John H. Wilkinson 
75 Glen Cameron Road 
Thornhill, Ontario L3T 1N8 
889-8544 

General and specialized camps-$140-$190 
Two week sessions 

Activities: Riding; Sail; Skiing; Crafts; 

Tripping; Music 

Summer address: R.R.2, Port Carling, Ont. 
(705) 765-3923 

KIAWA (Girl Guides of Canada 
Hamilton Area) 

200 girls 10-15 
Mrs. C.E. For den 

375 James St. S., Hamilton, Ont. L8P 3B9 
$40 per 2 weeks 
3 periods of 2-weeks each 
Summer address: R.R.9, Dunnville, Ont. 

(416) 774-4531 


KILCOO ; </ / ^ 

200 boys 9-16 

Mr. & Mrs. John R. Latimer 

160 Eg/in ton Ave. East, Suite 102 A 

Toronto 12, Ontario 

(416) 486-5264 

Undetermined. $515-$540 per 4 weeks 
Activities: Swim; Skiing; Tripping; 

Riflery; Sailing 

Summer address: Minden, Ontario 
(705) 286-1091 


KINTAIL (Presbyterian Church) 
(Hamilton-London Synod) 

80 boys or girls 8-17 
Rev. D.G. Cassidy 

3200 Woodland Ave., Windsor, Ont. N9E 1Z5 
(519) 969-8170 
$4 per day 
8 weeks 


Kitchener Lions Youth Camp 
75 boys or girls 7-15 
Ron Charron 

$95 per 2 weeks; $45 per 1 week (Jr. Camp) 
Two 2-week girls July; two 2-week boys Aug; 
One 1-week Jr. camp August 
Activities: Sailing; Canoeing; Swimming; 
Crafts 

Summer address: R.R.3, Fergus, Ontario 
(519)843-1920 


Wabanaki 

120 boys and girls 6-16 

$450 per 6 weeks; $300 per 4 weeks; 

$155 per 2 weeks; $75 per 1 week (Jr. Camp) 
Activities: Sail; Canoe; Trip; Crafts; Drama; 
Leadership 

Summer address: R.R.1, Huntsville, Ontario 
P0A 1 K0 
(705) 789-4841 


KITCHENER-WATERLOO YWCA 
84 Frederick St., Kitchener, Ont. N2H 2L7 
(519) 744-6507 

100 girls 5-12; 30 boys & girls 4-5 (co-ed) 

Youth Program Director 

$15 per week 

Four 1-week periods 

Activities: Campcraft; Naturelore; Swim¬ 
ming; Boating; Crafts 

Summer address: R.R.1, Bamberg, Ontario 


Minwandum 
60 girls 8-15 
Youth Program Director 
$155 per 2 weeks 
2 July Residence camps; 

1 August Wilderness Camp 
Activities: Campcraft; Canoeing; Tripping; 
Swimming 

Summer address: R.R.1, Nobel, Ontario 


KITCHENER-WATERLOO YMCA 

David Westfall 

145 Lincoln Rd., Waterloo, Ont. N2J 2N8 
(519) 579-3500 


Ki-wa-y (Kiwanis & YMCA) 

150 boys & girls 7-15 
Brent Weber 
$70 per 2 weeks 
Four 2-week periods 
Activities: Canoe; Swimming; Rowing; 
Crafts; Sailing 

Summer address: R.R.1, St. Clements, 
Ontario NOB 2B0 
(519) 699-4096 


60 



ONTARIO 


KITCHIKEWANA 
(Midland YMCA) 

170 boys or girls 9-15 plus family and school 
camping 

Austin Matthews 

YMCA Huge/ Ave. W., Midland, Ontario 
(705) 526-7828 
$135 per 2 weeks 

2 or 4 weeks; boys July; girls August 
Activities: Swim; Canoe Trip; Sail; Crafts 
Summer address: do P.O. Honey Harbour, 
Ontario 


KIWANIS (Kiwanis Club of Toronto) 
(Primarily for members of Kiwanis 
Boys & Girls Clubs) 

192 boys or girls 7-14 
Ghent Carroll 

101 Spruce St., Toronto, Ont. M5A 2J3 
(416) 925-2243 
Fees on application 
Girls one 18-days; boys two 3-weeks 
Activities: Swimming; Canoeing; Tripping; 
Crafts 

Summer address: Box 430, Huntsville, Ont. 
(705) 635-2491 


KNOTTY KNOLL (Day Camp) 

(Nepean Township Parks & Rec'n) 

125 boys & girls 5-7 and 8-12 (co-ed) 

Jan St. Amour 

1701 Woodroffe Ave., Ottawa, Ont. K2G 1W2 
(613) 825-5151 

$30 per 2 weeks 8-12; 3 two week sessions 
$20 per week 5-7; 2 one week sessions 
Activities: Play; Crafts; Fire Making; 

Folklore; Conservation 
Summer address: As above. 


KOHAI (Treatment Centre for 
Exceptional People) 

100 boys & girls 6-adult (co-ed) 

Jackie Hall 

22 Glebe Rd. W., Toronto, Ont. M5P 1C9 
(416) 489-3636 

7 weeks $975; 4 weeks $593; 3 weeks $463 
Specialty: Intensive Remediation $1475 
Summer address: R.R.2, Bracebridge, Ont. 
(705) 645-4881 


KURIOU (The Kuriou Foundation) 
(For children from low rental housing 
areas) 

Rev. M. David 3owen 

Suite 01, 4800 Dundas Street West 

Islington, Ontario M9A 1B1 

(416) 247-8217 

60 boys, 60 girls 7-19 

$25 per week 

Six 1-week periods and two 2-week periods 
Activities: Boating; Swimming; Canoeing; 

Archery; Handcrafts 
Summer address: Moffat Lake, 

McKellar, Ontario 
(705) 389-2808 


KWASIND (Baptist Convention of 
Ontario & Quebec) 

90 boys & girls 9-17 (co-ed) 

Rev. R.D. Harmer 
217 St. George St., Toronto, Ont. M5R 2M2 
(416) 922-5163 
$5.50 per day 
Periods of varying lengths 
Activities: Bible Study; Crafts; Swimming; 
Boating 

Summer address: R.R.1, Utterson, Ontario 
(705) 769-3751 


LAKE JOSEPH HOLIDAY CENTRE 
(CNIB) (Must be Registered Blind) 

96 children & adults 6-19 (co-ed) 

John Simmons 

Rec'n Dept. 1929 Bayview Avenue 
Toronto, Ont. M4G 3E8 
(416) 486-2513-4 

One 2-week Children; Five 2-week Adult 
Activities: Sail; Ski; Swim; Riding; Evening 
activities 

Summer address: R.R.1, Mactier, Ontario 
(705) 375-2630 


LANGSKIB 

30 boys 12-16 

Mr. & Mrs. David Knudeson 

21 West Knowlton Rd., Media. Pa. 19063 

(215) TR-22555 

$415 per 4 weeks 

Two 4-week periods 

Activities: Canoe Trips; Survival Training. 


48 boys & girls 8-15 (co-ed) 

Dr. R.F. Sneyd and Ron Dewar 
72 Main Street, Toronto, Ontario 
(416) 691-4721 

$45 per week; special family rates 
Two 2-week periods 

Activities: Canoe; Swim; Archery: A & C; 
Special CIT Program 

Summer address: Honey Harbour, Ontario 


MANITOU-WABING SPORTS AND 
ARTS CENTRE 
375 boys & girls 12-17 (co-ed) 

Mr. & Mrs. Ben Wise 
821 Eglinton Avenue West 
Toronto, Ontario M5N 1E6 
(416) 783-6168 

$1190 per 7 weeks; $715 per 4 weeks; 

$530 per 3 weeks; Tennis Camp $215 per wk 
Activities: Music; Theatre; Dance; Tennis; 
Visual Arts 

Summer address: Parry Sound, Ontario 
(705) 389-2410 

vfHVIAPLE GLEN (Day Camp) 

250 boys & girls (co-ed) 

Gord and Judy Mes/in 
51 Saw/ey Dr., Wi/lowdale, Ont. M2K 2J4 
(416)222-2929 
$235 per 4-weeks 

Activities: Swimming; A & C; Drama; Nature 
& Science; Overnights 
Summer address: As above. 


MAPLE LEAF 

(Canadian Council of War Veterans) 

John A. Small 

Robina Hall, 924A St. Clair Ave. West 
Toronto, Ontario M6C 1C6 
(416) 654-4234 

Summer address: R.R.1, Peterborough, Ont. 
(705) 657-8571 


MARYGROVE 

(Society of St. Vincent de Paul) 

(Apply to Society through a Vincentian) 
136 girls 8-13 
Mrs. Ruth Stovin 

Apt. 1203, Nonquon Ct., Oshawa, Ont. L 1J3S6 
(416) 579-4287 

Fee: According to ability to pay 
Five 10-day periods 
Activities: Bible; Canoe; Crafts; Swim; 
Theatrical Dance 

Summer address: R.R.2, Penetanguishene, 
Ontario 

(705) 549-8951 


MASSAD 

(Kosher; Promotion of Hebrew 
Culture & Language) 

150 boys & girls 6-16 (co-ed) 

Mrs. Rose E. Hersh 
Suite 201, 4140 Bathurst Street 
Downsview, Ontario M3H 3P2 
(416) 633-7851 

$925 per 8 weeks; $550 per 4 weeks July; 

$450 per 4 weeks August 

Activities: Swim; Riding; Tennis; A & C; 

Sail; Ski; Sport; Drama 
Summer address: Torrance, Ontario 

MAZINAW 

(including Outdoor Ed'n Centre) 

70 boys 7-16 
J. Brian Black stock 

2385 Carling Ave., Apt. 1101, Ottawa, Ont. 
(613) 728-9259 
Paul S. McLean 

32 Whitney Ave., Toronto, Ont. 


Nancy J. Cannon 
Cloyne, Ontario 
(613) 326-2579 

$725 per 6 weeks; $390 per 3 weeks 
School camp fees on request 
Activities: Canoe Tripping; Sailing; Aquatics; 
Woodcrafts 

Summer address: Cloyne, Ont. K0H 1K0 
(613) 336-2559 or 2579 


MEDEBA (Medeba Bible Camp Inc.) 

48 boys or girls from 8 years 
Stuart C. Wilson 

71 Glencameron Rd., Thornhill, Ont. L3T 1P5 

889-7144 

$55 weekly 

Girls July; boys August 
Activities: Tripping; Crafts; Swim; Bible 
study; Hiking 

Summer address: West Guilford, Ontario 
(705) 754-2444 


MENESETUNG 

175 boys & girls 9-16 (co-ed) 

J.A. Snider 

62 Essex St., Goderich, Ontario N7A 2H4 
(519) 524-6497 
$35 per week 

Activities: Swimming; Crafts; Archery; 
Watersports; Study 

Summer address: R.R.6, Goderich, Ontario 


MI-A-KON-DA 

66 girls 8-15 

Mrs. N.L. Farrell & Mrs. E. Dobec 

310 Si/verstone Drive No. 8 

R exdale, Ontario M9V 3J4 

(416) 749-0178 

Mrs. E. Dobec: 489-9068 

$115 per week 

4 weeks July, 3 weeks August 
Activities: Swim; Canoe; Sail; Tripping; 
Archery; Crafts 

Summer address: R.R.2 Dunchurch, 

Auld's Landing, Ont. 


MINI-YO-WE 

260 boys or girls 10-16 

John K. Say nor — Miss Ethel Lee 

1562A Dan forth Ave. Toronto, Ont. M4J 1N4 

(416) 469-2101 

Two 2-week periods boys July; two 2-week 
periods girls August 

Activities: Tripping; Crafts; Swimming; 

Bible Study 

Summer address: Port Sydney, Ont. 



(416)921-4501 

MANITOMONO (Calvary Baptist Church) Mrs • Len Starmer 

88 Cast! eg rove Ave., Don Mills, Ont. 
(416)447-0255 


61 



ONTARIO 


MINWASSIN 
(Ottawa Boys' Club) 

130 boys 8-16 

Richard M. Wood 

412 Nepean St., Ottawa, Ont. KIR 5G7 
(613) 232-7316 
$102 per 2 weeks 

Activities: Tripping; Sailing; Canoeing; 
Swimming; Crafts 

Summer address: R.R.3, Eganville, Ont. 

(613) 628-2403 

MOORELANDS-KAWAGAMA 
Family Camp 

(Downtown Churchworkers' Assn.) 

150 boys & girls, infants to adults (co-ed) 

J. Douglas Varey 

145 Adelaide St. E., Toronto, Ont. M5C 1L7 
(416) 366-7797 
Fees on application 

Four 14-day periods; 2 week adventure camp 
Activities: Swimming; Tripping; Small group 
camping 

Summer address: Russell Landing P.O. 

Ontario POA 1 E0 
(705) 766-2916 

MOSHAVA 

(Mizrachi-Hapoel Organization) 

300 boys & girls 8-16 (co-ed) 

M. Maierovitz 

159 Almore Ave., Downsview, Ont. M3H 2H9 

(416) 630-7578 

Fees available on request 

Two 3-week periods 

Activities: Woodwork; A & C; Israeli dancing; 
Waterfront 

Summer address: R.R.1, Ennismore, Ont. 

(705) 292-8143 

NAORCA (Day Camp) 

(North York Parks & Rec'n Dept.) 

600 boys & girls 6-14 

Mrs. Diane Harris 

5145 Yonge St., Willowda/e, Ontario 

(416) 225-4611 ext. 363 

$40 per period — Borough residents; 

$50 for non-residents 

Four 9-day periods 

Fees and structure subject to change 

Summer address: As above. 

NEW MOON 

250 boys & girls 7-16 (co-ed) 

At Goodman 

3185A Bathurst Street, Suite 102 
Toronto, Ontario M6A 2B2 
(416) 787-4461 

$1075 per 8 weeks; $650 per 4 weeks July; 
$625 per 4 weeks August 
Activities: Canoeing; Sailing; Skiing; Riding; 
Tennis; A & C 

Summer address: Baysville, Ontario 
(705) 767-3381 

NEWPORT (The Salvation Army) 

80 boys & girls from 8 years (co-ed) 

Cap tain H. R. Marshall 
Box 427, Orillia, Ontario 
(705) 326-3271 
$30 to $35 per period 
1 week periods 

Activities: Archery; Swim; Canoeing; Music; 
Crafts; Bible 

NOMININGUE 

275 boys 7-15 

Peter Van Wagner 

482 Strathmore Blvd., Dorval, P. Q. H9S 2J4 
(514) 631-1501 
Peter G. Gilbert 

13 Maple Ave., Toronto, Ont. M4W 2T5 
(416)921-7384 

$450 per 4 weeks; $650 per 6 weeks; 

$815 per 8 weeks 


Activities: Canoe Trips; Sailing; Tennis; 

Woodwork; Skiing 
Summer address: Lac Nominingue, 

Quebec J0W 1R0 
(819 ) 278-3383 

NORTHLAND-B'NAI B'RITH 
(Jewish Camp Council of Toronto) 

1,132 boys & girls 7-16 (co-ed) 

John Bernstein 

750 Spadina Ave., Toronto, Ont. M5S2J2 
(416) 924-6211 

$195 per 2 weeks; $275 per 3 weeks; 

$385 per 4 weeks 

Activities: Complete Water, Land & Cultural 
Programs 

Summer address: Haliburton, Ontario 

NORTHWAY (and Wendigo) 

Northway: 50 girls 9-16 
Wendigo: 25 boys 12-16 
Ann R. Prewitt 
1 Roseda/e Rd., Apt. 206, 

Toronto, Ont. M4W2P1 
(416)961-9301 

$835 per 7 weeks; $435 per half season 
Activities: Canoe Trips; Swim; Sail; Drama; 
Crafts 

Summer address: Algonquin Park, Ont. 

POA 1 B0 
(705) 789-4671 

OCONTO 

225 girls 7-17 

Mr. & Mrs. Clifford Labbett 
3 Pine Forest Road 
Toronto, Ontario M4N 3E6 
(416) 489-1032 

$525 per 4 weeks; $1050 per 8 weeks 
Activities: Canoeing; Swimming; Riding; 
Sailing; Drama 

Summer address: Tichborne, Ontario 
(613) 375-6678 

ONAWAW 

70 girls 8-16 

Mrs. W.K. Leggatt 

149 Al/anhurst Dr., Islington, Ont. M9A 4K5 
(4 16) 249-2574 

$800 per 8 weeks; $425 per 4 weeks 
Activities: Water Activities; Tripping; Riding; 
Crafts 

Summer address: McKellar, Ont. P0G ICO 
(705) 389-2698 

ONONDAGA 

175 boys and girls 5-12 (co-ed) 

Nick & Janiss Florian 

54 Binscarth Rd., Toronto, Ont. M4W 1Y4 
(416) 967-6111 

$275 per 2-weeks; $395 per 3-weeks 
One 2-week period June; Three 3-week 
periods July and August 
Sept, to June Outdoor Education 

WAHCAHMIE 

50 boys & girls 13-16 (co-ed) 

Activities: Sail; Kiteskiing; Scuba; Tripping; 
Survival; CIT 

Summer address: R.R.1 Nobel, Ontario 
P0G 1G0 
(705) 746-9596 

ONTARIO CAMP LEADERSHIP 
CENTRE (Bark Lake) 

144 boys and girls 16-17 (co-ed) 

Ministry of Culture and Recreation, 

Special Services Branch 
Miss Dorothy Walter 

400 University Ave., Toronto, Ont. M7A 1H9 
(416) 965-5665 
Two 3-week periods 

Activities: Leadership development programs 
Summer address: Irondale, Ontario 
(705) 447-2452 


ONTARIO GIRL GUIDE CAMP 
(Girl Guides of Can. — Ont. Council) 
375 girls 8-20 

Miss Kim Ball 

50 Merton St., Toronto, Ont. M4S 1 A3 
(416) 487-5281 
$50 per week 

Eight 1-week periods (younger campers); 
Four 2-week periods (older campers) 

Summer address: Sprucedale, Ontario 
(705) 685-7911 

ONTARIO SOCIETY FOR CRIPPLED 
CHILDREN 

Mrs. Shirley Hall 

Supervisor of Camping and Recreation 
350 Rumsey Rd., Toronto, Ont. M4G 1R8 
(416) 425-6220 

$20-$25 per day (1975) — sliding fee scale 
available. 

Four 2-week periods 

Children with physical disabilities (excluding 
emotionally disturbed and mentally retarded 
without physical handicaps) 

Boys and Girls 7-18 

Activities: Swim; A & C; Drama; Campcrafts; 
Cookouts 

Blue Mountain Camp 

72 campers 

R.R.3, Collingwood, Ontario 
(705) 445-3941 
$20-$25 per day (1975) 

Sliding fee scale available 

Lakewood Camp ^ 

60 campers 

R.R.2, Wainfleet, Ontario 
(416) 899-3043 
$20-$25 per day (1975) 

Sliding fee scale available 

Merrywood Camp 
72 campers 
R.R.5, Perth, Ontario 
(613) 267-1244 
$20-$25 per day (1975) 

Sliding fee scale available 

Northwood Camp 

40 campers 

Swastika, Ontario 
(705) 642-3414 
$20-$25 per day (1975) 

Sliding fee scale available 

Woodeden Camp 

64 campers 

R.R.3, London, Ontario 
(519) 471-6640 
$20-$25 per day (1975) 

Sliding fee scale available 

OPEMIKON 

(Boy Scouts of Canada National Capital) 
(Boy Scouts only) 

300 boys 8-17 

John Minter 

Boy Scouts National Capital Region 
1345Baseline Rd., Ottawa, Ont. K2C3H5 
(613) 225-2770 
Activities: Boy Scout Camping 

ORR-WALTON SPORTS CAMP 

220 boys 7-15 

William W. Watters 
80 Richmond Street West, Suite 701 
Toronto, Ontario M5H 2B3 
(416) 364-6113 
$165 per week 

Four 2-week; Two 1-week sessions; total 10 
Activities: Hockey; Tennis; Canoeing; 

Skiing; Sailing 

Summer address: Box 595, Orillia, Ontario 
(705) 325-2717 


62 



OTTAWA VM-YWCA 

180 Argyle Ave., Ottawa, Unt. K2P 1B7 

(613) 237-1320 

Davern 

90 girls 8-16 

Mrs. Libby Gaffney 
$60 per week 

One 18-day period; two 14-day periods; 
one 10 -day period 

Activities: Swimming; Canoeing; Ecology; 
Crafts; Tripping 

Summer address: R.R.2, Maberly, Ontario 
(613) 273-5273 

Otonabee 

242 boys & girls 5-12 (co-ed) 

Two-week periods 

Activities: Swim; Canoe; A & C; Hiking; 
Archery 

OTTERDALE 

125 boys & girls 5-15 (co-ed) 

Mr. & Mrs. Carman F. Harrison 

25 Hi/ts Dr., Stoney Creek, Ont. L8G 3H5 

(416) 662-4726 

2 to 4 weeks $115 per week; 5 to 7 weeks 
$110 

2, 3, 5 and 7 week periods 
Activities: Swimming; Canoeing; Crafts; 
Riding; Sailing 

Summer address: Lombardy, Ont. KOG 1 L0 
(613) 283-1539 


OUAREAU 

100 girls 6-15 

Mrs. J.R. Allen 

29 Summer Street, Lennoxville, P.Q. 

(819) 562-9641 
Mrs. A. Smith 

372 Kingswood Road, Toronto, 

Ontario M4E 3P1 
(416) 691-3398 

July (4) $460; Aug. (4) $410; 8 weeks $820 
Activities: Swim; Canoe; Sail; Tripping; Crafts 
Summer address: R.R.1,St. Donat 
P.Q. JOT 2C0 
(819) 424-2662 


OWAISSA (Hamilton YWCA) 

75 girls 7-14 

Mrs. Maureen Marshall 

YWCA, 75 McNab St. S., Hamilton, Ontario 

$70 per 2 weeks 

Four 2-weeks 

Activities: Swimming; Crafts; Canoeing; Drama 
Summer address: R.R.2, Lowbanks, 

Dunnville, Ontario 
(416) 774-4444 


PATHFINDER 

110 boys 7-15 

Roy Thrall 

51 Hobbes Lane, Rochester, 

New York, 14624 
(716) 594-8307 

$825 per 7 weeks; $435 July period; 

$400 August period 
Activities: Canoe Tripping; Swimming; 
Boating; Skiing 

Summer address: Algonquin Park, Ontario 


PAUWATING (Day Camp) 

(Sault Ste. Marie Family YMCA) 

120 boys & girls 8-14 (co-ed) 

235 MeNabb St., Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario 

(705) 949-3133 

$15 per 2 weeks 

Three 2-week periods 

Activities: Canoeing; Sailing; Campcraft; 

Nature; Archery 
Summer address: As above. 

(705) 253-1753 



ONTARIO 


PIONEER CAMPS (including Outdoor 
Education Centre) 

(Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship) 

Morley Lee 

745 Mount Pleasant Road 

Toronto, Ontario M4S 2N5 

(416) 487-3431 

$165 per 2 weeks — all camps 

Sept. - June Outdoor Ed'n fees on request 

Activities: Tripping; Riding; Sail; Farm; 

Music; Cycling; Gymnastics; 
Hockey 

Summer address: Box 229, Port Sydney, Ont. 
(705) 385-2386 

Boys' Camp 

180 boys 10-16 

Three 2 -week periods plus two 1 -week 
periods 

Girls' Camp 

180 girls 11-16 

Three 2-week periods plus one 12-day 
period music (co-ed) 

Junior Camp 

(School camping Sept. - June) 

120 boys & girls 7-10 (co-ed) 

Two 1-week periods 


PLEASANT BAY 

(Pleasant Bay Bible Conference) 

80 boys & girls 8-14 (co-ed) 

Mr. & Mrs. L.K. Wakefield 

2 Frey Cresc., Scarborough, Ont. MIR 2C4 

(416) 759-2086 

$40 per 6 -day camp 

Eight 6 -day camps 

Summer address: R.R.3, Consecon, Ontario 
(613) 399-5877 


PODUNK (Day Camp) 

(Borough of York Parks & Rec'n Dept.) 
(Borough of York residents only) 

60 boys & girls 6-17 (co-ed) 

Peggee Davis 

2700 Eglinton Avenue West 
Toronto, Ontario M6M 1V1 
(416) 653-2700 ext. 281 
$20 per 2 -week session 
Activities: Campcraft; Crafts; Hiking; 

Swimming; Trips 
Summer address: As above. 


PONACKA 

136 boys 8-15 

Bruno Morawetz 

R.R.4, Peterborough, Ont. K9J 6X5 
(705) 745-9441 
1976 fee undetermined 
$515-$540 per 4 weeks 
Two 4-week periods 

Activities: Riding; Tripping; Nature; Sailing; 
Crafts 

Summer address: Lake Baptiste, Bancroft, Ont. 


QUEEN ELIZABETH 
(London YM-YWCA) 

118 boys or girls 8-15 
Murray Faulkner 

YM-YWCA, 433 Wellington Street 
London, Ontario N6A 3P7 
(519) 432-3706 
$160 per 2 weeks 

Two 2-weeks girls; Two 2 weeks boys 
Activities: Sailing; Skiing; Skin Diving; 
Tripping 

Summer address: Honey Harbour, Ontario 


QUIN-MO-LAC (United Church) 

170 boys, girls and families 
Mr. & Mrs. D.J. Genge 
R.R.1, Tweed, Ontario KOK 3JO 
(613) 473-2877 

Peterborough area representative 
Mrs. Marion Davis 

Locust Hill, R.R. 1, Ennismore, Ont. KOL 1T0 
Activities: Canoeing; Swimming; Campcraft; 
Crafts 

Summer address: As above. 

RAINBOW VALLEY RANCH 

70 boys & girls 5-12 (co-ed) 

W.F. Shackleton 
R.R.3, Caledon, Ontario 
(519) 927-5343 

$575 per 8 weeks; $160 per 2 weeks 
Activities: English & Western Riding; Swim¬ 
ming; Crafts 

Summer address: As above. 

RAMAH IN CANADA 

(Jewish Theological Society of Canada) 

350 boys & girls IO-I 6 V 2 (co-ed) 

Dr. Walter Ackerman 
3101 Bathurst Street, Suite 406 
Toronto, Ontario M6A 2A6 
(416) 789-2193 

$1075 per 8 weeks; $632.50 per 4 weeks July; 
$527.50 per 4 weeks August 
4 week periods; 10 and 11 year olds only 
Activities: Hebrew speaking; Kosher; 

Religious; Educational 
Summer address: Fish Hatchery Road 
Utterson, Ontario 
(705) 769-3601 

RICHILDACA (and Outdoor 
Education Centre) (Day Camp) 

200 boys & girls 4-14 (co-ed day camp) 

Mr. & Mrs. W.J. Babcock 

193 Richmond St., Richmond Hill, Ontario 

(416) 884-2844 

$85 per 2 weeks, day camp 

Four 2-week periods 

Activities: Archery; Campcraft; Swim; 

Canoe; A & C; Drama 
Summer address: Kettleby, Ontario 
(416) 727-9941 

ROBIN HOOD (Day Camp) 

600 boys & girls 4-16 (co-ed) 

Larry Bell 

1804 Avenue Rd., Ste 1, Toronto, 

Ontario M5M 3Z1 
(416) 783-4951 

$488 per season; $269 July; $249 August 
Activities: Swimming; Canoeing; A & C; 

Drama; Nature 
Summer address: As above. 


ROLLIN' ACRES 

80 boys & girls 5-12 (co-ed) 

Mrs. J.R. Rowland 

43 Fenn Avenue, Wil/owda/e, Ontario 
(416) 447-7513 
$80 per week; $600 per season 
Activities: Riding; Canoeing; Overnights; 

Crafts 

Summer address: R.R.1, Fraserville, Ont. 

(705) 932-2107 

ROLLING ACRES RANCH 

80 girls 5-16 

Mr. & Mrs. Harold Hazel! 

R.R.4, Durham, Ontario NOG 1RO 
(519) 369-3739 

$880 per 8 weeks; $495 per 4 weeks; 

$250 per 2 weeks 
Teen camp last 2 weeks June 
Activities: English & Western Riding; Swim; 
Riflery; Overnights 

Summer address: R.R.4, Durham, Ont. Dept.C 
(519) 369-3739 


63 




ONTARIO 


SAMAC (Boy Scouts Canada) 

380 boys 7-12 

Stanley A. Richardson 
P.O. Box 293, Oshawa, Ontario 
(416) 725-4734 
S30 per 10 day period 
Activities: Camping skills; Swim; Boating; 
Pollution Education 

SCOTT MISSION FRESH AIR CAMP 
(Scott Mission) 

100 boys & girls 7-12 (co-ed) 20 mothers & 
infants 

Earl Ambrose 

502 Spadina Ave., Toronto, Ont. M5S 2H1 
(416) 924-4437 

Fees - according to ability to pay 
Four 11-day periods; two 7-day periods teens 
Activities: Swimming; Riding; Crafts; Bible 
Study; Tripping 

Summer address: R.R.3, Caledon, Ontario 
(416) 838-2713 

SHADOW LAKE 

(Metro Toronto Ass'n for Mentally 
Retarded) 

140 boys & girls 7 and up (co-ed) 

Gary R. Ouellette and R. Vince Gill is 
186 Beverley St., Toronto, Ont. M5T 1Z2 
(416) 361-0773 
$60 per week; Daily fee to $12 
Length varies for different age groups 
Activities: Canoeing; Swimming; Tripping; 
Crafts 

Summer address: R.R.2, Stouffville, Ontario 
(416) 294-6917 


SHALOM (Canadian Young Judaea) 

180 boys & girls 8-13 (co-ed) 

David Zifkin 

788 Madee Ave., Toronto, Ont. M6B3K1 
(416) 783-6744 

$835 per two periods; $405 per one period 
Two 27-day periods 

Activities: Israeli folklore; A & C; Water- 
sports; Drama 

Summer address: Gravenhurst, Ontario 
(705) 687-4244 

SIDRABENE (St. Andrew's Latvian 
Congregation) (Members only) 

120 boys & girls 5-16 (co-ed) 

Rev. F. Cal it is 

383 Jarvis Street, Toronto, Ont. M5B 2C7 
(416) 924-1563 
$45 per week 
1 to 7 weeks 

Activities: A & C; Sports; Swimming; Nature 
Summer address: R.R.6, Milton West, Ont. 
(416) 878-7185 


SILVER LAKE (Mennonite) 

60 boys & girls 9-15 (co-ed) 

Karl Dick 

R.R. 1, Hep worth, Ont. NOH IPO 
(519) 935-2399 

$75 per 6 days; $110 per 10 days 
Activities: Swim; Canoeing; A & C; Bible 
Study; Hiking; Nature 
Summer address: As above. 


SOLELIM (Zionist Organization of 
Canada Charitable Funds) 

90 boys & girls 14-16 (co-ed) 

588 Melrose Ave., Toronto, Ont. M5M 2A6 
(416) 781-5156 
$625 per 6 weeks 

Activities: Senior Leadership Training 
Summer address: R.R.2, Clearwater Lake, 
Sudbury, Ontario 
(705) 522-8817 


SUMMERLAND (Orillia YMCA) 

80 boys or girls 8-15 
Mr. Stan E. Seitz 

18 Peter Street North, Orillia, Ontario 
(705) 326-6141 
$60 per week 

4 weeks boys July; 4 weeks girls August 
Activities: Canoeing; Swimming; Tripping; 
Campcraft 

Summer address: Washago P.O., Ontario 


SWALLOWDALE 

90 boys & girls 5-15 (co-ed) 

Mr. & Mrs. Ron Walbank 
19 McArthur Street, Weston, Ontario 
(416) 241-6250 

$205 per 2 weeks; $400 per 4 weeks 
Activities: Competitive Swimming; Sailing; 
Riding; Canoeing 

Summer address: R.R.2, Huntsville, Ont. 

(705) 789-4891 


TAMAKWA 

210 boys & girls 7-15 (co-ed) 

Kal Banda/ene 

16000 West Nine Mile, Suite 304 
Southfield, Michigan 48075 
(313) 559-4240 

$500 per 4 week session; $950 for 8 weeks 
Activities: Tripping; Sailing; Skiing; Tennis; 

Arts; Drama; Canoeing 
Summer address: Huntsville, Ontario 
(705) 633-5561 


TANAMAKOON 

150 girls 9-16 

Mr. & Mrs. Hugh W. Butters 
30 Whitelock Cresc., Wi/lowdale M2K 1 V8 
(416) 221-5238 

$1 000 per 8 weeks; $525 per 4 weeks 
Activities: Tripping; Sailing; Archery; 
Tennis; Crafts 

Summer address: Algonquin Park, Ontario 
P0A 1 B0 
(7051 633-5541 


TAWINGO (including year round 
Outdoor Centre) 

365 boys & girls 8-16 (co-ed) plus school 
camping 

Helen & Jack Pearse 

274 Shakespeare Dr., Waterloo, Ont. N2L 2T6 

(519) 885-4180 

Mary & George Si mo nett 

2396 Malone Cresc., Ottawa, Ont. K2C 1L5 

(613) 828-1342 

$775 per 8 weeks; $330 per 3 weeks; 

$220 per 2 weeks 

Year round Outdoor Ed'n Fees on request 
Activities: Nature; Tripping; Canoeing; 

Sailing; Campcraft 

Summer address: R.R.1, Huntsville, Ont. 

(705) 789-5612 


TAYLOR STATTEN CAMPS 

164 Eg!inton Avenue East, Suite 402 
Toronto, Ontario M4P 1G4 
(4 16) 486-6959 

$1100 Full Period; $615 per Half Period 
Two 27-day periods 

Activities: Riding; Tripping; Sailing; Drama; 
Crafts 

Summer address: Huntsville, Ontario 
Ahmek (including Algoma-Temagami 
Outpost) 

250 boys 8-16 

Dr. Taylor Statten — (705) 633-5573 
Wapomeo (including Algoma-Temagami 
Outpost) 

220 girls 8-16 

Mr. Taylor Statten — (705) 633-5502 


TIMBERLANE 

250 boys & girls 8-16 (co-ed) 

Mr. & Mrs. Barry Lov/es 

15 Wychwood Park, Toronto, Ont. M6G 2V5 

(416) 651-5198 

$1050 per 8 weeks; $600 per 4 weeks 
Activities: Tennis; Sailing; Skiing; Tripping; 
Drama; A & C 

Summer address: Haliburton, Ontario 
(705) 457-2813 

TOWHEE (Integra Foundation) 

(For children with Learning Disabilities) 

60 boys & girls 8-12 (co-ed) 

2637 YongeSt., Toronto, Ont. M4P 2J6 
(416) 486-8055 
One 6-week period 
Activities: This is a Remedial and 
Recreational Camp 
Summer address: Haliburton, Ontario 
'705) 457-2741 


TRAILFINDER 

125 boys & girls 6-16 (co-ed) 

Mr. & Mrs. Paul Rush ton 

38 CUffside Dr., Scarborough, Ont. MIN 1L3 

(416) 261-3459 

$525 per 4 weeks; $265 per 2 weeks 
Four 2-week periods; Two 4-week periods; 
One 8-week period 

Activities: Riding; Tripping; Sailing; Skiing; 
Crafts 

Summer address: Kawagama Lake, Dorset, 
Ontario P0A 1 E0 
(705) 766-2405 


TRI-BELL (Tri-Bell Club) (Day Camp) 

70 boys & girls 3-13 (co-ed) 

David Feinstein 
1575 Steeles Avenue West 
Willowdale, Ontario M2R 2T3 
(416) 633-6010 
Fees upon request 

Two 4-week periods; Tennis three 3-wk periods 
Activities: Swimming; Drama; Dance; 

Tennis (10-13 years of age) 

Summer address: As above 


UNICAMP (Unitarian) 

60 boys & girls 8-14 (co-ed) 

Elinor R. Laighton 

268 Aberdeen Ave., Hamilton, Ontario 
(416) 527-8441 

$80 per week; $290 per 4 weeks 
Four 1-week periods 

Activities: Growth experience emphasizing 
Crafts & Outdoors 

Summer address: Honeywood, Ontario 
(519) 925-6432 


UNITED CHURCH OF CANADA 
(Hamilton Conference) 

Don Groff 

86A Homewood Ave., Hamilton, 

Ontario L8P 2M4 
(416) 525-7550 

Restall 

Boys, Girls & Mothers 

Activities: Swimming; Canoeing; Nature; 
Drama; Crafts 

Summer address: R.R.3 Ay re, Ont. NOB 1 E0 
(519) 632-7559 

Silver Lake 

Co-ed, boys & girls & family 

John Wagner 

Activities: Swimming; Canoeing 
Summer address: R.R.4, Kincardine, 

Ont. N2C 1A9 
(519) 395-2450 


64 




ONTARIO 


UNITED CHURCH OF CANADA 
(Toronto Conference) 

K. Grant Kerr 

85 St. Clair Ave. E., Room 321, 

Toronto, Ont. M4T 1L8 
(416) 967-1880 

Big Canoe 

80 boys or girls 8-17 

Mrs. Jean Tompkins 

49 Wellington St. E., Markham, Ontario 

(416) 294-1568 

4 co-ed camps; 1 girls and 2 canoe camps 
Activities: Canoeing; Hiking; Crafts; Swim¬ 
ming; Outtripping 

Summer address: R.R.5, Bracebridge, Ont. 

(705) 645-4963 

Scugog 

mothers and children; youth 

Miss Carolynn Rogers 
Four 12-day periods 

Activities: Crafts; Swimming; Nursery; Games 
Summer address: R.R.1, Nestleton, Ontario 
(416) 986-4401 

Simpresca 
64 boys or girls 8-16 
Rev. Ralph Pickering 
Coldwater, Ontario 
(705) 686-3647 

Activities: Swimming; Archery; Crafts; 

Nature Study; Sports 

Summer address: R.R.1, Penetang, Ontario 
(705) 526-5913 

Sparrow Lake 

130 boys and girls 7-15 (co-ed) 

Ian Sinclair - (416) 884-9559 
Four 12-day periods 
Activities: Canoeing; Tripping; Crafts; 
Swimming 

Summer address: Port Stanton, Ontario 
(705) 689-2568 


VOYAGEUR 

35 boys 9-12; 40 boys 13-18 

D.W. Mac Lean 

Box 996, Barrie, Ontario L4M 5E1 
(705) 726-6274 
Toronto Representative 
Mrs. G. Kaye 

120 St. Andrews Rd., Scarborough, Ontario 
(416) 438-4590 

9-12 year olds - $490 per 6 weeks; $170 per 
2 weeks 

13-18 year olds — $180 per trip (2 weeks) 
Activities: Wilderness Canoe Tripping; Swim¬ 
ming; Sailing 

Summer address: Box 69, South River, Ont. 


WABIKON 

170 boys & girls 8-16 (co-ed) 

Gordon Wolfe 

572 Briar Hill Ave., Toronto, Ont. M5N 1M9 
(416) 483-5902 

$850 per 6 weeks; $475 per 3 weeks; 

$300 per 2 weeks 

Activities: Tripping; Sailing; Tennis; Crafts; 
Dramatics 

Summer address: Temagami, Ontario 
(705) 569-3795 


WABUN 

100 boys 10-18 

Richard D.P. Lewis III 

R.R. 1 Mountain Rd., Stowe, Vermont 05672 
(802) 253-8597 
$975 per 6 week season 
Activities: Wilderness Canoe Tripping; Sports 
Program in camp 

Summer address: Temagami, Ont. P0H 2H0 
Temagami Island 1 Ring 4 


WAHANOWIN 

300 boys & girls 5-12 (co-ed) 

Mr. & Mrs. Harold B. Nashman 
Mrs. Anne Nashman 
821 Eglinton Avenue West 
Toronto, Ontario M5N 1E6 
(416) 783-6168 

$1075 per 8 weeks; $650 per 4 weeks July; 
$600 per 4 weeks August 
Activities: Waterfront; Fine Arts; Tennis; 
Riding; Sports 

Summer address: Longford Mills, Ontario 
(705) 325-2285 


WALDEN 

300 boys & girls 7-16 (co-ed) 

Ted Cole 

1 Campbell Cresc., Willowdale, Ont. M2P 1 PI 
(416) 489-8903 

Full Season $1000; July $625; Aug. $550 
Activities: Water & Land Sports; Fine Arts; 
Field Trips 

Summer address: R.R.2, Palmer Rapids, Ont. 
(613) 758-2365 


WANAKITA (Hamilton YMCA) 

150 boys & girls 8-16 (co-ed) 

Wayne Perkins 

79 James St. South, Hamilton, Ont. L8P 2Z1 
(416) 529-7102 
$190 per period 

Four 15-day periods; 1-week for families 
Activities: Swim; Canoe; Trip; Nature; 

Crafts; Leadership; Sail 
Summer address: R.R.2, Haliburton 
Ont. K0M ISO 
(705) 457-2132 


WANAPITEI 

90 boys & girls 7-18 (co-ed) 

Bruce W. Hodgins 

7 Engleburn PI., Peterborough, Ont. K9H 1C4 

(705) 743-3774 

Mr. & Mrs. Stanley Hodgins 

218 Bleams Road, Kitchener, Ontario 

(519) 745-4887 

Rob Edwards 

Apt. 3, 178 Cambridge St. N., Ottawa, Ont. 
(613) 232-2149 
Jim Allman 

287 Armadale Street, Toronto, Ontario 
(416) 767-0900 

$910 per 8 weeks; $510 per 4 weeks; 

Juniors $125 per week 

Activities: Wilderness canoe trips; Swimming; 
Sailing 

Summer address: Temagami, Ontario 


WA-SA-AH-BUN 
(St. Catharines YMCA) 

100 boys or girls 9-16; also families 
Doug MeEwen 

P.O. Box 310, St. Catharines, Ontario 
(416) 685-4211 
Fees available on request 
2-week and 11-day periods for boys and girls 
Activities: Aquatics; Canoeing; Tripping; 
Crafts 

Summer address: Port Severn, Ontario 


WHITBY (Day Camp) 

300 boys & girls 2-14 
Miss Elizabeth Moore 
Box 216, Whitby, Ontario 
(416) 668-6868 
Fees on request 
Four 2-week periods 

Activities: Gymnastics; Ecology; Creative 
Arts; Drama; Crafts 
Summer address: As above. 


WHITE BEAR 

85 boys and girls 8 and up 

Ron & Mickey Johnstone 

805 Valetta St., London, Ont. N6H 2Z2 

(519) 471-1147 

$395 per 3-week period 

Three weeks boys July; three weeks girls Aug. 

Activities: Island Camp Featuring Water 

Activities and Wilderness Tripping 
Summer address: Temagami, Ontario 


WHITE PINE 

400 boys & girls 8-16 (co-ed) 

Joseph Kronick 

306 Warren Rd., Toronto, Ont. M5P 2M8 
(416)487-2341 

$1100 per 8 weeks; $660 per 4 weeks 
Activities: Aquatics; Tripping; Ride: 

Creative & Graphic Arts 
Summer address: Haliburton, Ontario 
(705) 457-2131 


WIGWASATI 

70 boys 9-16 

Glenn E. Harvison — Frank P. Wrightson 
c/o Waheca Inc. P. O. Box 743 
Silver Spring, Md., U.S.A. 20901 
(301) 421-9480 

$800 per 6 weeks; $575 per 4 weeks; 

$300 per 2 weeks 

Activities: Island camp with wilderness trip¬ 
ping; Aquatics 

Summer address: Temagami, Ont. P0H 2H0 
(705) 569-3795 


WINNEBAGOE 

250 boys & girls 8-16 (co-ed) 

Ben Lustig, John Danson 

260 Old Forest Hill Rd., Toronto, 

Ontario M6C2H4 
(416) 781-1260 

$1050 per 8 weeks; $650 per July; $625 
per August 

Activities: Riding; Tennis; Sailing; Skiing; 
Tripping 

Summer address: Huntsville, Ontario 
(705) 789-5892 


YMCA CAMPING SERVICE 
(Metro Toronto) 

Don Pringle 

36 College Street, Toronto 2, Ontario 
(416)920-6010 

Beausoleil 

80 boys 9-15 

Malcolm Bury 

$200 per period 

Four 2-week periods 

Activities: Canoe Tripping; Woodcraft; 

Swimming; A & C; Sailing 
Summer address: Honey Harbour, Ontario 
(705) 756-2514 

Norval 

110 boys & girls 6-10 (co-ed) 

Fees on request 

Nine 5-day periods & weekends 
Activities: Swimming; Crafts; Woodlore; 
Games 

Summer address: Norval, Ontario 
(416) 877-9013 

Pine Crest 
200 boys 8-16 
Don Pringle 

$330 for periods 1 & 2; $260 for period 3 
Two 20-day periods; One 17-day period 
Activities: Canoe Tripping; Sailing; Wood¬ 
craft; Aquatics 

Summer address: Torrance, Ontario 
(705) 762-3377 


65 



ONTARIO 


u 


Wangoma 

Available to Organizations and Families 
170 boys & girls — all ages 

Fees on request 

Activities: Swimming; Canoeing; Outtrips; 
Hikes; Picnics 

Summer address: McArthur's Mills, Ontario 
(613) 332-1893 

YWCA CAMPING SERVICE 
(Metro Toronto) 

Mrs. Eleanor M. Kay 
3179 Dundas St. W., Toronto, 

Ontario M6P 2A5 
(416) 763-2147 

C.O.P.Y. (Day Camp) 

150 boys & girls 6-12 (co-ed) 

Mrs. Judith Codd Downey 

Sliding Scale — $20 - $30 per 2 weeks 

Four 2-week periods 

Activities: Swimming; Crafts; Games; 

Outings; C.l.T. Program 
Summer address: 3179 Dundas St. W., 

Toronto, Ont. M6P 2A5 
(416) 762-8169 


Gypsy Glen (Day Camp) 

100 boys & girls 5-13 (co-ed) 

Miss Rhoda Taller 

$50 per 2 weeks 

Four 2-week periods 

Activities: Swimming; Crafts; Games; 

Outings; C.l.T. Program 
Summer address: 2532 Yonge Street 

Toronto, Ont. M4P 2H7 
(416) 487-7151 

Tapatoo 

80 girls 8-15 

Mrs. Janet Pearson McLean 

$195 per 2 weeks, periods 1,2 & 3. $190 for 

Period 4 

Four 2-week periods 

Activities: Swimming; Canoeing; Tripping; 
Sailing 

Summer address: R.R.2, Parry Sound, 
Ontario P2A 2W8 
(705) 378-2484 


Tapawingo 

(including Outdoor Centre) 

140 girls 8-15 

Miss Ann Dunnigan 

$300 per 3 weeks; $190 per 2 weeks; 

$190 Canoe Trip 

Year round Outdoor Centre fees upon 
request 

Two 3-week periods; One 2-week period; 
2-week Canoe Trip 

Activities: Tripping; Swimming; Canoeing; 
Sailing 

Summer address: Parry Sound, Ontario 
P2A 2X3 
(705) 746-5455 


CAMP ASSOCIATES 

The following camps have applied for membership in the Ontario Camping Association, but have not yet been visited by the 

Standards Committee for Accreditation. Winter addresses listed. 


BOULDERWOOD 

23 Grange Road 
Toronto, Ont. M5T 1C3 
(416) 364-9133 

CANADETTE SPORTS CAMP 

P.O. Box 207, Station W 
Toronto, Ontario 
(416) 244-8401 

COOPER SPORT CAMPS 

501 Alliance Ave. 

Toronto, Ont. M6N 2J3 
(416) 763-3801 


GRIPPEN LAKE 
(Brockville YM-YWCA) 

3 George Street 
Brockville, Ont. 

(613) 342-7961 

KE-MON-OYA 

P.O. Box 124 
Unionville, Ontario 
(416) 297-2398 

NAWAGUA 

(Youthdale Treatment Centre) 
39 Spadina Road 
Toronto, Ontario 
(416) 976-4401 


RKY CAMP 
(Kingston YM-YWCA) 

100 Wright Cresc. 

Kingston, Ont. K7L 4T9 
(613) 546-2647 

SAULAINE 

(Latvian Lutheran Church) 

200 Balmoral Avenue 
Toronto 7, Ontario 
(416) 921-3327 

UNIVERSITY OF OTTAWA 

Pavilion Montpetit 
Ottawa, Ontario 
(613) 231-5763 


VALLEY VIEW (Day Camp) 

22 Marathon Cresc. 
Willowdale, Ont. M2R 2L7 
(416) 223-4642 

WYOKA (Girl Guides of 
Canada) (White Oaks Area) 
3054 Mavis Road 
Mississauga, Ontario 
(416) 279-2790 


COMMERCIAL ASSOCIATES 

Commercial Associates Support Camping. The Ontario Camping Association asks you to support them. 


HARBUTT'S PLASTICINE (CANADA) LTD. 

720 Kipling Ave., Toronto, Ont. M8Z 5G5 
(416) 251-4436 

Plasticine, Modelling Materials, Press-on Lettering 

HICKESON LANGS SUPPLY COMPANY 


M. BLACK WIPING PRODUCTS LTD. 

Ill St. Regis Cres. South, Downsview, Ont. M3J 1Y6 
(416) 638-1335 

Disposable Cups, Plates, Washroom Supplies 

CANADIAN KEYES FIBRE CO. LTD. 

30 Iron Street, Rexdale, Ont. M9W 5E1 
(416) 249-2207 

Disposable paper service (Chinet & Paprus) 

CHESTNUT CANOE COMPANY LIMITED 

P.O. Box 185, Oromocto, N.B. 

(506) 454-4479 

Canoes, Paddles, Boats, Snowshoes and Accessories 

COLLEGIATE SHIRTS 

3196 Danforth Ave., Scarborough, Ont. 

(416) 698-6242 

Sport Outfitters, Crested T-shirts and Sweaters 

CRESTEX LIMITED 

68 Broadview Ave., Toronto, Ont. M4M 2E6 
(416) 461-0731 

Crested Camping Apparel, Award Crests 

F. CUMMINS ENTERPRISES LTD. 

757 Green Lane, London, Ont. N6H 2T9 

(519) 471-7468 

Camp Ink-Crested T-shirts, etc. 

GIBBONS FOODS LIMITED 

49 Advance Rd., Toronto, Ont. M8Z 2S6 
(416) 239-1421 

Jelly, Puddings, Cake Mixes, Beverages 

S. GUMPERT CO. OF CANADA LTD. 

31 Brock Ave., Toronto, Ont. M6K 2L1 
(416) 531-5758 

Specialty Foods — Camps and Backpacking 


500 Fenmar Drive, Weston, Ont. M9L 2V5 
(416) 789-4101 

Serving camps throughout Southern Ontario 

HURON RECREATION 

R.R. No. 5, Brussels, Ontario 
(519) 887-9342 

Custom built Canoes and Paddles 

INSTITUTION FOOD SUPPLY (EASTERN) LTD. 

P.O. Box 242, Thornhill, Ontario 
(416) 636-6675 

Soup bases. Instant Juices and Mixes 

D.R. KELLER DIVERSIFIED LTD. 

128 Peter St., Toronto, Ont. M5V 2G7 
(416) 863-1459 
Crazy David's T-shirts 

KELLOGG-SALADA CANADA LTD. 

1315 Finch Ave. West, Suite 308, Downsview, Ont. M3J 2G6 
(416) 636-9296 

Convenient food products for your requirement 

KMH MARINE 

471 Jarvis St., Toronto, Ont. M4Y 2G8 
(416) 922-7766 

Castrol Oils and Cleaners, Windsurfer 

KRAFT FOODS LIMITED 

62 Bartor Rd., Weston, Ontario 
(416) 741-8450 

Complete Line Quality Food Service Products 


66 






ONTARIO 


LEWISCRAFT 

284-286 King St. W., Toronto, Ont. M5V 1J3 
(416) 363-5206 

Art, Craft, Needlework and Leather Supplies 

MAITRE D'SERVICE FOODS 
(Division of General Foods) 

344 Consumers Rd., Willowdale, Ontario 
(416) 491-6932 

Coffee, Tang, Twist, and the Jello Family 

MARGESSON'S SPORTS LTD. 

17 Adelaide St. E., Toronto, Ont. M5C 1H4 
(416) 366-2741 

Hiking, Tripping Equipment, Tennis Court Material 

MARSAN FOODS LIMITED 

692 Richmond St. W., Toronto, Ont. M6J 1C6 
(416) 863-9966 

Extensive range of Frozen Prepared Foods 

JOHN F. MARSHALL & COMPANY 

43 Victoria St., Toronto, Ont. M5C 2A2 
(416) 366-4810 

Hiking & Tripping Equipment, Freeze Dry Foods 

NATIONAL GROCERS COMPANY LIMITED 
(Wholesale Food Distributors) 

92 Barrie Road, Orillia, Ontario 
(705) 326-3591 

Complete Food Service to the Camp Trade 

NOR-STAN PRODUCTS 

491 Brimley Rd., Unit 20, Scarborough, Ont. Ml J 1A4 
(416) 261-5519 

Camp Foam Mattresses, Bedding and Linen 


P.J.B. MARKETING & SALES LTD. 

269 East Ave., West Hill P.O., Ontario 
(416) 364-7455 
Food Representatives 

THE QUAKER OATS COMPANY OF CANADA LIMITED 

Ste. 412, 245 Fairview Mall Dr., Willowdale, Ont. M2J 4T1 
(416) 494-6820 

Cereal, Burry Biscuits, Frozen Waffles, Mixes 

SANGSARA LTD. 

682 George St. N., Peterborough, Ont. K9H 3S9 
(705) 745-3674 

Whole Natural & Organic Foods 

E.D. SMITH & SONS LTD. 

Winona, Ontario LOR 2L0 

(416) 643-1211 Toronto No. (416) 920-3633 
Manufacturers of E.D. Smith brand products 

STAFFORD FOODS LIMITED 

37 Hanna Ave., Toronto, Ont. M6K 1X1 
(416) 366-8021 

A Complete Range of Food Products 

TALENS C.A.C. LTD. 

2100 Girouard Ave., Montreal 260, P.Q. 

Toronto No.: (416) 782-4744 
Art and Craft Supplies 

SIGNET FOOD PRODUCTS INC. 

P.O. Box 1067, Station B, Mississauga, Ont. L4Y 3W4 
(416) 625-9421 

Total Food Suppliers for Summer Camps 

VOYAGEUR CANOE COMPANY 

King Street, Millbrook, Ontario L0A 1G0 
(705) 932-2131 

12 ft. to 25 ft. Canoes, Paddles, Lifevests 


The use of this Directory for commercial purposes without the written consent of the Ontario Camping Association is prohibited. 

The information contained in this Directory is supplied by the member camps and is correct to the best of our knowledge at the time of publi¬ 
cation; however, the Ontario Camping Association does not accept responsibility for any errors, omissions or individual camp changes. 


Photo courtesy Camp Nominingue 



67 









l*fl//oci<itioA de/ Comp/ du Quebec 
Quebec Camping A//ociation 


OFFICE 


SECRETARIAT PROVINCIAL 
1415 Est, Rue Jarry 
Montreal, Quebec H2E 1A7 
Tel. (514) 374-4700 


MEMBRES HONOR AIRES 

PRESIDENT 

VICE-PRESIDENTS 

TRESORIER 
SECRETAIRE 
PRESIDENT ANTE RI EUR 
ADM/N/STRATEURS 


PRESIDENTS ANTER/EURS 


DIRECT EUR GENERAL 
PRESIDENT DU 
COM/TE DESNORMES 


CONSEIL PROVINCIAL BOARD 

H. CAPT. ABBE RAOUL CLOUTIER 

MR. JULES LEAVITT, CR. 

mr. j.w. McCarthy 

MRS. VAL WILLIS 

M. GEORGE ROBITAILLE 

M. MAURICE BESSETTE 

M. PAUL BELANGER 

M. ROSAIRE CORBIN 

M. CARMEL LERMA 

M. MARIO BERTRAND 

SOEUR MONIQUE MORIN 

MRS. BARBARA PATTERSON 

MR. ROBERT LAZANIK 

MRS. SOPHIA DEMETELIN 

MR. DEREK WALSH 

MR. PETER VAN WAGNER 

M. LIONEL PERRAS 

MRS. N.D. DEMETELIN 

MR. TONY SHORGAN 

MRS. ALTA R. KAHN 

H. CAPT. ABBE RAOUL CLOUTIER 

MR. ROBERT LAZANIK 

M. GIL CARDINAL 

M. ROSAIRE POUSSARD 


HONORARY MEMBERS 

PRESIDENT 

VICE-PRESIDENTS 

TREASURER 
SECRETARY 
PAST PRESIDENT 
BOARD MEMBERS 


PAST PRESIDENTS 


EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 
PRESIDENT OF THE 
STANDARDS COMMITTEE 


Section francai/ej 


CONSEIL D'ADM INISTRATION 

SECRETARIATS 


MONTREAL 
Secretariat provincial 
1415 est, rue Jarry 
Montreal, Quebec H2E 1A7 
(514) 374-4700 

PRESIDENT: 

VICE-PRESIDENTS 


SECRETAIRE 

ADMINISTRATEURS 


PRESIDENT SORTANT 
PRESIDENT DU COMITE PLE/N AIR 
PRESIDENT DU 
COMITE DES PUBLICATIONS 


M. GEORGE ROBITAILLE 
M. MARIO BERTRAND (MONTREAL) 
M. PAUL BELANGER (QUEBEC) 

M. CARMEL LERMA (ESTRIE) 
SOEUR MONIQUE MORIN 
M. MAURICE BESSETTE 
M. BERNARD C. MIRON 
M. ROSAIRE POUSSARD 
MLLE CLAIRE MENARD 
M. ROBERT MAISONNEUVE 
M. JEAN-PIERRE JOLY 

M. FRANCOIS PAIEMENT 


QUEBEC 

Secretariat regional 
8620 Deslongchamps, 
Quebec, Quebec G1G 4H8 
(418) 623-0819 


M. RAYMOND MAILHIOT 
MME COLETTE MARIER 
M. YVON VEZINA 
M. GILBERT ROY 


68 


QUEBEC (Section frangaise) 


ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU QUEBEC 

(-'ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU QUEBEC INC. - QUEBEC CAMPING ASSOCIATION INC., un organisme bilingue a but 
non lucratif, a ete incorpore dans la Province de Quebec, le 23 janvier 1961. La section Anglaise a debute en 1937 et a regu sa 
charte federale en 1949. Elle est affiliee a I'ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU CANADA. 

Notre association est une organisation benevole, composee de proprietaires, directeurs, responsables, moniteurs de camp, cour- 
nisseurs commerciaux et de personnes interessees, oeuvrant ensemble dans le but de promouvoir et de maintenir un niveau 
eleve des normes concernant tous les aspects operationnels des camps de vacances au Quebec. L'Association met sur pied un 
programme d'activites annuel afin de permettre a ses membres de progresser a travers les experiences pertinentes aux colonies 
de vacances et en tentant de trouver des solutions a leurs problemes communs. Le but ultime de tous ses efforts est d'assurer 
I'excellence des sejours de la jeunesse quebecoise dans nos camps. On reconnait de plus en plus que I'experience dans le milieu 
d'hebergement du plein-air est educative autant que recreative. Ceci est peut-etre I'environnement ideal pour le developpement 
socio-emotionnel de nos jeunes. 

Ce bottin est destine principalement aux parents qui s'interessent a ce que leurs enfants passent un sejour dans une colonie de 
vacances. Tous les camps ci-inclus ont ete visites et repondent aux normes de I'A.C.Q.-Q.C.A. Etant donnee I'autonomie de 
chaque camp et egalement que seuls les parents connaissent les desirs et les besoins particuliers de leurs enfants, ('association 
ne peut s'engager a recommander un camp en particulier. 

Les renseignements contenus dans ce bottin etaient, au moment de la publication, conformes aux informations communiquees 
par les camps membres accredites. Cependant, I'A.C.Q.-Q.C.A. n'endosse aucune responsabilite quant aux erreurs, omissions 
ou changements qui pourraient survenir. 

Pour de plus amples renseignements, veuillez communiquer directement avec les directeurs ou les proprietaires eux-memes. 

II est defendu d'utiliser ce bottin pour des fins commerciales sans la permission de I'A.C.Q.-Q.C.A. 


LISTE DES CAMPS MEMBRES ACCREDITES 


Filles 

Cap a I'Orignal 
De la Decouverte 
Domaine de I'Amitie 
Notre-Dame de la Joie 
Oolahwan 
Ste-Jeanne d'Arc 

Gargons et Filles 
Auberge La Perdriere 
Base de Plein Air les Pins 
Base de Plein Mont St-Jovite 
Boute-en-T rain 
Cap a I'Orignal 

Centre de Plein Air Lac Sauvage 
Cite-Joie 

Claret du Lac Elgin 
Clocher du Manoir 
Coeur Joie 

Colonie de vacances Plein Champ 

De la Salle 

Domaine Fraser 

Domaine de la Fraternite 

Domaine de la Jeunesse 

Edphy 

Elena Guerra 
Ferme Louisbourg 
Jeune Air 


Jouvence 

Katimavik 

L'Assomption 

L'Entente 

Marcel 

Marie de Nazareth 
Mere M.L. Clarac 
Minogami 
Mont Lac Vert 
Notre-Dame de Montreal 
Notre-Dame des Petits 
Notre-Dame du Lac Sept-1 les 
Pharnasol 

Richelieu Quatre-Saisons 
Richelieu St-Clement 
St-Alexis des Monts 
St-Frangois (Black Lake) 
St-Frangois (lie d'Orleans) 
St-Stanislas 
St-Viateur 

St-Vincent de Paul en Haut 

Sante Bruchesi 

Trois Saumons 

Vivaldi 

Vive la Joie 

Camps de Jour 

Colonie de Vacances des Greves 
Colonie de Vacances de Maizerets 


Garcons 
Beausejour 
Bel Air 
Boisjoly 

Colonie de vacances Plein Champ 

Keno 

Le Manoir 

Les Gais Lurons 

Les Sommets 

Mariste 

Oasis Notre-Dame 

Olier 

St-Donat 

St-Michel 

Savio 

Val Heureux 

Camps Familiaux 

Air-O-Bois 
Bleu et Blanc 

Carrefour des Citoyens de I'Avenir 
Domaine Notre-Dame Inc. 

Loisirs familiaux C.E.M. 

Marie-Paule 

Michel Inc. 


CAMPS SPECIALISES POUR ENFANTS 


Ca rowan is — Diabetiques 
Centre de Vacances de ('Association de 
Paralysis Cerebrate 

Centre de Plein Air la Caleche — Jeunesperturbes 
socio-emotifs 

Centre Marronniers Inc. — Jeunes adu/tes deficients 
mentaux educables 
Domaine des Cimes 


Domaine des Pres 

Enfants Infirmes - Handicapes phys.-Cardiaques- 
Fibrose kistique 
Gatineau — Deficients mentaux 
Massawippi — Enfants infirmes et enfants sourds 
Pavilion Rotary 

Terre des Jeunes (Ste-Julienne) — Mixite 
Villa Notre-Dame de Fatima 


69 



QUEBEC (Section franpaise) 


Abdalla, Ghazal 
Camp Claret 
Allaire, Mile Michele 
Association des Camps 
Arbique, Jean-Louis 
Association des Camps 
Aubry, Jacques 

Association des Camps 
Authier, Richard 
Camp Savio 
Bachand, Denise 

Camp Notre-Dame des Petits 
Bastien, Alexandre 

Association des Camps 
Beauchemin, Gilles 
Camp Cap a I'Orignal 
Belanger, Michel 

Association des Camps 
Bergeron, Marc 

Association des Camps 
Bertrand, Mario 

Association des Camps 
Berube, Jean-Yves 

Association des Camps 
Bouthillier, Robert 

Association des Camps 
Boyer, Fr. Jacques 
Camp Boute-en-Train 
Cadeddu, Sr. Helvetia 
Camp Marie-Clarac 
Cardinal, Gil 

Association des Camps 
Cardinal, Mme Lucille 
Association des Camps 
Castro, Mile Luz 

Association des Camps 
Chabot, Rene 

Association des Camps 
Chalifoux, Maurice 

Association des Camps 
Charlebois, Bernard 
Association des Camps 
Charron, Michel 
Camp Coeur Joie 
Clement, Romeo 

Association des Camps 
Cloutier, Raoul 

Association des Camps 
Corbin, Rosaire 

Association des Camps 
Croteau, Laurent 
Camp Claret 
Danis, Robert 

Camp Boute-en-Train 
Desautels, Denis 

Association des Camps 
Dion, Mile France 

Association des Camps 
Drouin, Abbe G.-Henri 
Association des Camps 


DELEGUES ET MEMBRES INDIVIDUELS 


Favreau, Luc 

Association des Camps 
Flamand, Mme Jeannine 
Association des Camps 
Forget, Fr. Roger 

Camp Notre-Dame de Montreal 
Fortier, Jacques 

Association des Camps 
Gagnon, Camille 

Association des Camps 
Gaudreau, Gerry 
Camp St-Donat 
Gilbert, Mme Jeanne 
Association des Camps 
Gosselin, Laurent 

Camp Marie de Nazareth 
Goulet, Richard 

Association des Camps 
Granger, Denis 

Camp I'Assomption 
Harel, M. & Mme Robert 
Camp Ste-Jeanne d'Arc 
Houle, Andre 

Camp Bleu et Blanc 
Jette, Robert 

Camp Les Sommets 
Lafleur, Sr. Irene 

Association des Camps 
Lamarre, Mme Andree 
Association des Camps 
Landry, Rene 

Association des Camps 
Landry, Roger 
Camp Vivaldi 
Langlois, Jean-Marie 
Association des Camps 
Lantagne, Luc 

Association des Camps 
Lanthier, Gilles 

Association des Camps 
Lavallee, Robert 
Camp DeLaSalle 
Lavoie, Mile Jacqueline 
Association des Camps 
Leblanc, Jean 
Camp Keno 
Lefebvre, Richard 

Association des Camps 
Mace, Grant 

Association des Camps 
Malouin, Raoul 

Association des Camps 
Marchand, Sr. Noella 

Camp St-Francois Black Lake 
Mercure, M. & Mme Pierre 
Camp Ste-Jeanne d'Arc 
Minto, Henry 

Association des Camps 
Miron, Bernard 

Association des Camps 


Morneau, Benoit 

Association des Camps 
Morneau, Roland 

Association des Camps 
Nicolai, Sr. Umberta 
Camp Elena Guerra 
Nobert, Mile Denise 
Association des Camps 
Page, Richard 

Association des Camps 
Paiement, Francois 

Association des Camps 
Parent, Gilles 

Association des Camps 
Payette, Come 

Association des Camps 
Pelletier, Denys 

Association des Camps 
Pelletier, Normand 
Camp Trois-Saumons 
Pelletier, Eudore 
Camp Michel Inc. 

Perras, Lionel 

Association des Camps 
Primeau, Andre 

Association des Camps 
Poupart, Mme Irene 
Association des Camps 
Poussard, Rosaire 
Camp Keno 
Quenneville, Ronald 
Camp Savio 
Robitaille, Georges 

Association des Camps 
Rousseau, Rene 
Camp La Caleche 
Roy, Francois 

Camp Val Heureux 
Roy, Gilbert 

Camp Notre-Dame de la Joie 
Tellier, J. Jacques 

Association des Camps 
St-Germain, Charles 
Association des Camps 
St-Hilaire, Gilles 

Association des Camps 
St-Onge, Guy 

Association des Camps 
Seguin, Mile Jacinthe 
Association des Camps 
Shorgan, Tony 

Association des Camps 
Soucy, Roger 

Villa des Marronniers 
Talarico, Gilles 

Camp Clocherdu Manoir 
Thompson, Donald 

Association des Camps 
Vary, Mile Celine 

Association des Camps 
White, Mrs. Carla 

Association des Camps 


70 






QUEBEC (Section frangaise) 


-I 

111 

Z 


111 

DC 

111 


n v (u 


PERIODES 


SECRETARIAT(HIVER) 

CAMP (ETE) 

CO¬ 
LLI < 
Q. Q 

10.2?! 
1-1 

5 ACTIVITES 
PRINCIPALES 

ACCUEIL 

FRAIS PENSION 
(Frais Inscription) 

AIR-O-BOIS (1972) 







40 Cobourg 

R.R. #1 



Canot/Kayak 

(familial) 

(frais sur demande) 

Ottawa 

Poltimore 



Camping 



(613-238-3558) 




Escalade 







Hebertisme 



AUBERGE LA PERDRIERE 




Voile 



M. Yves Paquin 

C.P.418 

X 

X A 

Voile 

210 garpons 7-16 

27 juin-21 aout 

C.P.418 

St-Donat 



Tir-a-l'arc 

200 filles 7-16 

$75.00/semaine 

St-Donat 

(819-424-3060) 



Orientation 


($10.00) 

(819-424-3052) 




Escalade 







Equitation 



BASE DE PLEIN AIR LES PINS (1972) 






M. Jean-Claude Divol 

C.P. 515 

X 

X A 

Voile/Canot 

50 garpons 6-16 

20 juin-10 juil. 

M. Daniel Cordier 

St-Jovite 



Equitation 

50 filles 6-16 

10 juil.-30 juil. 

C.P. 515 

(819-425-2461) 



Ski Nautique 


30 juil.-10 aout 

St-Jovite 




Natation 


$75.00/semaine 

(819-425-2461) 




Escalade 


($20.00) 

BASE DE PLEIN AIR MONT ST-JOVITE (1970) 






M. Daniel Cordier 

C.P. 515 

X 

X A 

Voile 

40 garpons 6-16 

20 ju in-10 juil. 

M. Jean-Claude Divol 

St-Jovite 



Canot 

40 filles 6-16 

10 juil.-30 juil. 

C.P. 515 

(819-425-2461) 



Escalade 


30 juil.-IO aout 

St-Jovite 




Cyclo-Tourisme 


$75.00/semaine 

(819-425-2461) 




Ski nautique 


($20.00) 

BEAUSEJOUR (1969) 







M. Gilles Hebert, FSC 

Sts-Martyrs 

X 

X A 

Canot-Kayak 

80 garpons 10-14 

6 juil.-20 juil. 

905 sud boul. Bois-Francs 

C.P. 36 



Hebertisme 


20 juil.- 3 aout 

Arthabaska 

Cte Wolfe 



Tir a I'arc 


6 juil.- 3 aout 

(819-357-2082) 




Tir a la carabine 


$50.00/semaine 





Natation 


($10.00) 

BEL AIR (1967) 







Frere Charles Dionne 

Stratford-Centre 

— 

A 

Canotage 

72 garpons 10-14 

2 periodes: 

1527 Fradet 

Cte Wolfe 



Tir a I'arc 


6 juil.-20 juil 

Drummondville 

(418-443-2993) 



Tir a la carabine 


20 juil.- 3 aout 

(819-478-7671/478-0545) 




Hebertisme 


$45.00/Semaine 





Bricolage 


($10.00) 

BLEU ET BLANC INC. (1958) (Camp Familial) 






M. Jean-Louis Vezina 

Lac Simon 

X 

X A 

Canot 

Le camp repoit des families completes; 

7119 Ste-Marguerite 

La Conception 



Natation 

les differentes activites organisees pour 

Montreal 

Cte Labelle 



Sciences naturelles 

toutes les categories d'ages sont libres. 

(514-932-4249) 

(819-686-5201) 



Artisanat 

Proportionnes au cout de nourriture de 





Camping 

chaque famille pour une periode de 






15 jours. 


BOISJOLY (1928) 







M. Jules Leblanc 

Racine 

X 

A 

Natation 

54 garpons 11-12 

11 juil.-23 juil. 

M. Bernard Proulx 

Cte Shefford 



Canot 

54 garpons 13-14 

27 juin-9 juil. 

450 Girouard, C.P. 370 

(514-535-6837) 



Camping 


$80.00/periode 

St-Hyacinthe J2S 2Y2 




Arts 



(514-773-7692/773-4334) 




Tir a I'arc 



BOUTE-EN-TRAIN (1962) 







Frere Maurice Bessette 

Chertsey 

X 

X A 

Hebertisme 

100 garpons 8-13 

4 juil.-23 juil. 

330 Montee Lesage 

Cte Montcalm 



Voile/Canot 

50 filles 7-12 

25 juil.-7 aout 

Rosemere 

(514-882-2368) 



Ecologie 


4 juil.-7 aout 

(514-625-2481) 




Escalade 


8 aout-15 aout 





Tir 


$80.00/semaine 







($10.00) 

CAP A L'ORIGNAL (1948) 







60 ouest, rue Eveche 

60 ouest, Eveche 

X 

X A 

Excursions 

garpons 9-13 

(frais sur demande) 

Rimouski, 

Rimouski 



Camping 

filles 9-12 


C.P. 98 

(418-869-9902) 



Natation 



(418-723-7749) 




Bricolage 







Sciences naturelles 



CARREFOUR DES CITOYENS DE L'AVENIR (1963) 





(Camp Familial multi-ethnique) 






Sr. Denise Laine, SBC 

L'Avenir 

X 

A 

Artisanat 

11 families ou 

Ouvert a I'annee 

4285 ouest, Maisonneuve 

Cte Johnson 



Sciences naturelles 

80 personnes 

Echelle proportion- 

Montreal, H3Z 1 K7 

J0C 1 B0 



Natation 


nelle 

(514-932-2953) 

(819-394-2688) 



Hebertisme 


(Nil) 


Excursions 


71 





QUEBEC (Section frangaise) 


SECRETARIAT (HIVER) 

CAMP (ETE) 

PERSONNEL 

PAYE 

INFIRMIERE 

LIC. 

MEDECIN 

resident (R) 

sur appel (A) 

5 ACTIVITES 
PRINCIPALES 

ACCUEIL 

CENTRE DE PLEIN AIR DU LAC SAUVAGE (1974) 




Mme Diane Pare 

R.R. #1 

X - 

A 

Voile 

gargons et filles 

C.P. 35, 

St-Jovite 



Canot 

6-16 

Pte-aux-T rembles 

(819-425-3846) 



Escalade 


(514-645-4711) soir 




Hebertisme 


CITE-JOIE (1973) 






Mile Jany Lavoie 

R.R. #1 

X - 

A 

Excursion 

35 gargons 10-15 

350, 18e rue, 

Chemin Morneau 



Exploration 

35 filles 10-15 

Quebec 

Lac Beauport 



Vie/Pionnier 


(418-525-7312) 

(418-849-8288) 



Montage 






Exp. dramatique 


CLARET DU LAC ELGIN (1963) 





Pere Carmel Lerma, CMF 

Lac Elgin 

X X 

A 

Voile/Ski nautique 

120 gargons 7-16 

Mile Pauline Rondeau 

Stratford-Centre 



Canot 

108 filles 7-14 

Boulevard Gamache 

Cte Wolfe 



Camping 


Victoriaville 

(418-443-5213) 



Equitation 


(819-758-8533/562-1435) 




Escalade 


CLOCHER DU MANOIR (1972) 





M. Robert Sturgeon 

Chemin des Douanes X — 

A 

Natation/Canot 

35 garcons 9-15 

Chemin des Douanes 

Clarenceville 



Tir a I'arc 

35 filles 9-15 

Clarenceville 

Missisquoi 



Camping 


Missisquoi 

(514-294-2255) 



Brico-nature 


(514-294-2255) 




Taxidermie (speciale) 

COEUR JOIE (1951) 






M. Hobert Maisonneuve 

Cheneville 

X X 

A 

Camping 

100 garcons 9-15 

M. Gilles Lapointe 

Cte Papineau 



Canot 

80 filles 9-13 

C.P. 328/Station 

(819-428-3987) 



Natation 


Youville, Montreal 




Tir a Fare 


(514-326-3630) 




Artisanat 


COLONIE DE VACANCES DESGREVES (1912) (F.O.C.C.F.) 



M. Robert Moore 

1415 R.R. #2 

X X 

A 

Camping 

400 gargons 8-14 

493 O. Sherbrooke 

Contrecoeur 



Tir-a-l'arc 


Montreal 

(418-742-4767) 



Natation 


(514-288-1261) 




Hebertisme 






Bicyclette 


COLONIE DE VACANCES DE MAIZERETS (1932) 




M. Lucien Godbout, Ptre 

1000 La Verendrye 

X - 

A 

Sports organises 

450 gargons 11-16 

1, Cote de la Fabrique 

Quebec 



Act. Scientifiques 


Quebec 

(418*663-6494) 



Act. Artistiques 


(418-694-9923) 




Plein Air/Voyages 






Connaissance du Pays 

COLONIE DE VACANCES PLEIN CHAMP (1963) 




Pere Marius Lessard 

St-Frangois du Lac 

X X 

A 

Hebertisme 

50 gargons 6-8 — 

Soeur Monique Gemme 

R.R.no.1 



Natation 

50 filles 6-8 — 

St-Francois du Lac 

Yamaska 



Bricolage 

100 gargons 9-12— 

R.R. no. 1 — Yamaska 

JOG 1M0 



Tir a I'arc 


(514-568-2251) 

(514-568-2251) 



Excursions 


DE LA DECOUVERTE (1971) 





M. Maurice Comeau, Ptre 

Lac Bellevue 

- X 

A 

Arts 

46 filles 8-14 - r 

Sr. Aline Theriault, SSA 

Rang 9 



Sciences naturelles 


1850 St-Antoine 

Mont Rolland 



Bricolage 

L 

Lachine H8S 1V4 

(514-229-3328) 



Natation 


(514-637-1128) 




Hebertisme 







24 filles 8-11 - 






24 filles 15-17- 

DE LA SALLE (1953) 






Fr. Gerard Giguere, Dir. 

St-Alphonse 

X X 

A 

Voile 

140 gargons 9-16— 

M. Marcel Verpaelst 

Ste Joliette 



Hebertisme 

60 filles 9-16 — 

5714 ave Darlington 

J0K 1W0 



Camping 


Montreal 

(514-883-9919) 



Tir/Arc/Pallets 


(514-731-5524) 




Mini-golf 


DOMAINE DE L'AMITIE (1963) 





M. Andre Boudreault 

C.P. 1112 

X 

A 

Plein air 

50 filles 8-15 

M. Michel Gagne 

Chicoutimi 



Natation 


C.P. 1112, 

(418-678-2455) 



Hebertisme 


Chicoutimi 




Arts 


(418-549-3904) 




Athletisme 



PERIODES 
FRAIS PENSION 
(Frais Inscription) 


3 periodes/2 sem. 
1 periode/3 sem. 
$35.00/semaine 
(a determiner) 


periodes de 2 sem. 
$7.00/jour 


27 juin-9 juil. 

11 juil.-23 juil. 
25 juil.-6 aout 
8 aout-20 aout 
$65.00/semaine 
($ 10 . 00 ) 


23 juin- 4 juil. 

7 juil.-18 juil. 

4 aout-15 aout 
18 aout-29 aout 
$35.00/Semaine 
($ 10 . 00 ) 


21 juin-16 aout 
Per.: 2 semaines 
4 semaines 
8 semaines 
$35.00/Semaine 
($ 10 . 00 ) 

3 periodes de 
2 V 2 semaines 
varia 


8 semaines 
$5.00/Mois—juillet 
$5.00/Mo is—aout 
($ 10 . 00 ) 


27 juin-9 juil. 

11 juil.-30 juil. 

10 aout-20 aout 
$35.00/semaine 
($ 10 . 00 ) 


3 juil.-13 juil. 

17 juil.-27 juil. 
31 juil.-10 aout 
$60.00/periode 
($ 10 . 00 ) 

11 aout-17 aout 
11 aout-17 aout 
$35.00/periode 
($5.00) 

4 juil.-20 juil. 

1 aout-20 aout 
$65.00/semaine 
($ 10 . 00 ) 


4 juil.-l 3 aout 
$30.00/semaine 
$100.00/3 semaines 
($ 10 . 00 ) 




QUEBEC (Section franpaise) 


SECRETARIAT (HIVER) CAMP (ETE) 


_l 

LU 

_ 


LU 

GC 



z 

'UJ 

zoc^ 



DC 

r } QJ 

w £ a 

Q ~o to 
'LU w »- 


cr> 

LU < 
D- CL 

ll-cj 

5 ACTIVITES 


«•>!_</> 

PRINCIPALES 


PERIODES 
FRAIS PENSION 
ACCUEIL (Frais Inscription) 


DOMAINE DE LA FRATERNITE 


M. Paul Fortin 

St-Ubald 

X X 

A 

Natation 

63 gargons 9-14 

periodes de 15 jrs. 

3565 Christophe Colomb 

Cte Portneuf 



Canot 

63 filles 9-14 

$35.00/semaine 

Montreal 

(418-366-2493) 



Chaloupes 


($10.00) 

(514-849-3634) 




Equitation 







Camping 



DOMAIIME DE LA JEUNESSE (1964) 






M. Isidore Taillon 

St-David de Falardeau 

X X 

A 

Natation 

150 gargons 7-16 

$35.00/Semaine 

M. Francis Rousseau 

Cte Dubuc 



Athletisme 

50 filles 7-12 

($10.00) 

C.P. 322 

(418-673-4532) 



Tir a Pare 



Arvida 




Kayak 



(418-548-8110) 




Camping 



DOMAINE FRASER 







M. L-Paul Lavallee 

St-Ferdinand 

X 

A 

Equitation 

1 1 O mmnne 10-1 

r 4 juil.-l8 juil. 

Pavilion Frechette 

(418-428-3225) 



Canotage 

i i £ gar^urib i4- 10 

|_25 juil.-8 aout 

Mont-Villeneuve 




Survie 

112 filles 12-16 — 

- 8 aout-22 aout 

(418-428-3738) 




Sc. Naturelles 


$75.00/15 jrs. 







($10.00) 

DOMAINE NOTRE-DAME 

(1950) 





$35.00/semaine 

M. Jacques Masson 

Rue Ste-Jeanne 

X - 

A 

Natation 

16 emplacements: tentes, tentes-roulotti 

323,Jeanne d'Arc 

Ste-Catherine 



Balle molle 


roulottes. 

Quebec 6 

Cte Portneuf 



Tennis 

7 chalets pour 6 personnes. 

(418-683-9924) 

(418-875-2583) 



Bricolage 

7 chambres pour celibataires. 





Feux de camp 



EDPHY (1966) 







M. Yvan Dubois 

14e Avenue 

X X 

A 

Natation 

125 gargons 6-16 

22 juin-18 juil. 

100-B, boul. des Prairies 

Val Morin 



Hebertisme 

125 filles 6-16 

20 juil.-l 5 aout 

suite 103 

JOT 2R0 



Tir a I'arc 


$90.00/Semaine 

Laval H7N 2T5 

(819-326-3753) 



Canot/Voile/Ski n. 


($25.00) 

(514-669-9068) 




Equitation 



ELENA GUERRA (1967) 







Sr. M-Therese Lorion 

Lac Labelle 

X X 

A 

Hebertisme 

15 gargons 5-7 

28 juin-7 aout 

Sr. Umberta Nicolai 

(819-686-5626) 



Ballon volant 

65 filles 5-12 

2 periodes/3 sem. 

2800, Bossuet 




Natation 


$50.00/semaine 

Montreal H 1N 2S6 




Courses 


($5.00) 

(514-255-7041) 




Excursions 



FERME LOUISBOURG (1975) 






Mme Taddeo 

R.R. #2 

X X 

A 

Equitation 

50 gargons 6-13 

Per: 4 semaines 

4200, 1 ere rue 

St-Jovite 



Vie/Ferme 

50 filles 6-13 

$100.00/sem. 6-8 

Chomedey, Laval 

(819-425-3061) 



Natation 

*6-8: pas equita¬ 

$130.00/sem. 8-13 

(514-331-0196) 




Canotage 

tion 

($30.00) 





Ski Nautique 



JEUNE AIR (1967) 







M. Raymond Levesque 

C.P. 30 

X X 

A 

Sejour 

60 mixte 11-13 I 

" 14 juin $80.00 

C.P. 30, Lac Carre 

Lac Carre 



Voile 

60 mixte 14-16 1 

_ 22 juin ($15.00) 

Terrebonne JOT 1J0 

Terrebonne JOT 1J0 



Canot-camping 

175 mixte 7-14 — 

- 4 per./14 jours 

(514-861-8113) 

(514-861-8113) 



Pleine nature 


$160.00/periode 

(819-326-4281) 

(819-326-4281) 





($15.00) 

JOUVENCE 







Richard Lefebvre 

R.R. no. 1 

X X 

A 

Ecologie 

100 gargons 8-14 n 

1 fin juin - fin aout 

58 rue Academie 

Bonsecours 



Canot/Voile 

180 filles 8-14 - 

1 $45.00/Semaine 

Sherbrooke J1H 1M7 

Cte Shefford 



Escalade 

90 gargons 8-14 “ 

I fin juin - fin aout 

(819-569-5011) 

(514-535-6633) 



Orientation 

170 filles 8-14 - 

1 $35.00/Semaine 





Survie/Camping 


($5.00) 

KATIMAVIK (1968) 







M. Charles Veilleux 

Lac McGregor 

X X 

A 

Equitation 

75 gargons 7-16 

Per: 2, 4, 6 ou 

Lac McGregor 

Cte Gatineau 



Voile 

75 filles 7-16 

8 sem. 

Val des Monts 

(819-771-7992) 



Canot-Expeditions 


$220.00/2 sem. 

(819-271-7992) 




Escalade 


$440.00/mois 





Cours itinerants 



KENO (CAMP-ECOLE) (1966) 






M. Paul Belanger, S.M. 

St-Leonard 

X X 

A 

Canot-Camping 

106 gargons 

30 juin-25 juil. 

2315 Chemin St-Louis 

Cte Portneuf 



Sciences naturelles 


28 juil.-22 aout 

Sillery, Quebec GIT 1R5 

GOA 4 A0 



Natation 

10-12 - 

- $275.00 ($25.00) 

(418-651-4944) 

_ 



Hebertisme 

13-14 - 

- $285.00 ($25.00) 





Tir a Pare 

15-16 - 

- $305.00 ($25.00) 

L'ASSOMPTION (1963) 







M. Andre Rivest, Ptre 

La Minerve 

X - 

A 

Canot 

40 gargons 10-13 

— 25 juin- 9 juil. 

270 boul. I'Ange Gardien 

Cte Labelle 



Ski nautique 

40 filles 10-13— 

— 12 juil.-26 juil. 

L'Assomption 

(819-274-2018) 



Hebertisme 

40 filles 14-16— 

— 29 juil.-8 aout 

(514-589-5621) 




Sciences naturelles 

40 gargons - 

— 9 aout-19 aout 





Artisanat 


$45.00/semaine 


(Nil) 


73 










QUEBEC (Section frangaise) 





_i w _ 

ixi QC —< 

Z 'UJ 

Z ^ o a) 



PERIODES 




5 ACTIVITES 


FRAIS PENSION 

SECRETARIAT (HIVER) 

CAMP (ETE) 

£2 2-1 

PRINCIPALES 

ACCUEIL 

(Frais Inscription) 

L'ENTENTE (1974) 

M. Alain Bongard 

C.P. 329, 

X X A 

Langage 

100 mixte 9-1 7 

24 juin-22 juil. 

C.P. 329, 

Ste-Agathe 


Canot/Voile 


1 aout-29 aout 

Ste-Agathe 

(Lac a la Truite) 


Equitation 


$400.00/periode 

(819-326-3408) 

(819-326-3408) 


Escalade 

Camping 



LE MANOIR (1964) 

Fr. Jean-Paul Parent 

Le Manoir 

- - A 

Hebertisme 

64 gargons 10-13 

29 juin-12 juil. 

Fr. Robert Paradis 

Les Eboulements 


Camping 

20 juil.-2 aout 

1400 Rt. de I'Aeroport 

Cte Charlevoix 


Natation 


$50.00/semaine 

Ancienne Lorette 

(418-635-2666) 


Tir a I'arc 


($10.00) 

(418-872-1485) 



Bricolage 



LE RANCH MASSAWIPPI (1961) 





M. Norman Nadeau 

R.R. no.3 

X X A 

Equitation 

50 gargons 7-14 

28 juin-26 juil. 

M. Jacques Deslauriers 

Granby J2G 8C7 


Vie sur la ferme 

27 juil.-24 aout 

R.R. no.3 

(514-372-3612) 


Natation 

50 filles 7-14 

$100.00/1 sem. 

Granby J2G 8C7 



Arts plastiques 


$195.00/2 sem. 

(514-372-3612) 



Semaine d'equitation: 


$365.00/mois 




information sur demande 

($10.00) 

LES GAIS LURONS (1964) 
M. Lionel Fortin, S.C. 

Mont de I'lmmaculee 

- X A 

Hebertisme 

72 gargons 10-13 

4 juil.-1 aout 

7150 Marie-Victorin 

St-Anicet 


Natation/Canot 

$45.00/semaine 

Montreal H1G 2J5 

(Huntingdon) JOS 1M0 


Tir a I'arc 


($10.00) 

(514-322-9301) 

(514-264-5134) 


Tir a la carabine 
Bricolage 



LESSOMMETS (1959) 

M. Raymond Gagnon, CSC 

Katevale 

A 

Sciences naturelles 

60 gargons 11-15 

juin - aout 

1390, Notre-Dame 

Cte Stanstead 


Tir a I'arc 

$45.00/Semaine 

St-Cesaire 

(819-843-5461) 


Artisanat 


($10.00) 

Cte Rouville J0L 1T0 



Natation 


(514-469-3143) 



Hebertisme 



LOISIRS FAMILIAUX CENTRE-EST DE MONTREAL (1970) 




5279 Des Erables 

1452 Montee Val 

X - A 

Loisirs 

15 families 

Echelle proportion- 

Montreal 

David 


Jeux recreates 


nelle 

(514-571-5534) 

(819-322-3233) 


Sorties 

Camping 



MARCEL (1975) 

M. Claude Beliveau 

401 Rg. St-Laurent 

X X A 

Canot 

115 gargons 6-1 7 

juillet-aout 

401 Rg. St-Laurent 

Ste-Beatrix 


Hebertisme 

115 filles 6-17 

$35.00/semaine 

Ste-Beatrix 

Cte Berthier 


Ecologie 


($15.00) 

(514-883-6941) 

(514-883-6941) 


Orientation 

Escalade 



MARIE DE NAZARETH 

P. Philemon Bourgeois 

R.R. no. 2 

X - A 

Sciences naturelles 

72 mixte 6-14 

28 juin-16 juil. 

M.L. Gosselin 

Lac Labelle Est 


Tir-a-l'arc 


19 juil.-6 aout 

6973 Christophe-Colomb 

Cte Labelle 


Natation 


9 aout-27 aout 

Montreal 

(819-686-5302) 


Hebertisme 


$95.00/periode 

(514-276-3860) 



Arts plastiques 


($20.00) transport 






et inscription 

MARIE PAULE (1972) 

M. Michel Corbeil 

Ste-Veronique 

X - A 

Canot 

25 families 

juillet-aout 

1 Place Laval 

Cte Labelle 


Camping 


$50.00/semaine 

suite 500 

(819-275-3522) 


Tir-a-l'arc 


pour 1 famille 

(514-382-7211) 



Natation 

Artisanat 



MARISTE (1957) 

M. Maurice Boudreault 

650 Chemin Morgan 

XX A 

Canot 

128 gargons 9-13 

juin - aout 

650 Chemin Morgan 

Rawdon 


Tir a I'arc 

$170.00/3 semaines 

Rawdon 

J0K ISO 


Camping 


($25.00 

J0K ISO 

(514-834-3125) 


Hebertisme 


deductible de la 

(514-834-3125) 



Equitation 


pension) 

MERE M.L. CLARAC (1957) 
Soeur Louise Beaulac 

St-Donat 

XX A 

Athletisme 

60 gargons 4-10 

26 juin-21 aout 

3530 est, boul. Gouin 

Cte Montcalm 


Canotage 

120 filles 4-16 

$105.00/semaine 

Montreal H1H 1B7 

(819-424-2261) 


Equitation (suppl.) 


($20.00) 

(514-322-1161) 



Natation 

Tir a I'arc 



MICHEL INC. (1960) 

C.P. 231 

Lac Bonally 

X - A 

Canot 

50 enfants 

(En collaboration 

Sherbrooke 

(514-297-2817) 


Sciences naturelles 

25 adultes 

avec le centre des 

(819-569-5706) 



Randonnee pedestre 


services sociaux 




Camping itinerant 
Natation 


de Sherbrooke) 


74 






QUEBEC (Section frangaise) 


SECRETARIAT (HIVER) 

CAMP (ETE) 

PERSONNEL 

PAYE 

INFIRMIERE 

LIC. 

MEDECIN 

resident (R) 

sur appel (A) 

5 ACTIVITES 
PRINCIPALES 

Ml NOG AMI (CAMP-ECOLE) 

(1963) 




Madame Colette Marier 

Lac Minogami 

X 

X A 

Canot-camping 

M. Jean-Claude Marier 

Shawinigan 



Arts/Natation 

11 est, rue Cremazie 

Cte St-Maurice 



Sciences naturelles 

Quebec G1R 1Y1 

G0X 1P0 



Tirs: arc/carabine 

(418-529-5323) 

(819-539-4544) 



Hebertisme 


MONT LAC VERT (1974) 

M. Renald Maltais 

265 Rg. Lac Vert 

X X 

A 

Survie/Foret 

C.P. 68 

Hebertville, 



Canot 

Hebertville, 

Lac St-Jean 



Canot-Kayak 

Lac St-Jean 

(418-344-1966) 



Escalade 

(418-344-1966) 




Voile 

NOTRE-DAME DE LA JOIE (1959) 




M. Romain Menard 

Lac Croche 

X X 

A 

Natation 

4450 rue St-Hubert 

R.R. no.1 



Sciences naturelles 

Montreal H2J 2W9 

St-Donat 



Arts plastiques 

(514-524-1131) 

(819-424-5393) 



Exp. corporelle 
Athletisme 

NOTRE-DAME DE MONTREAL (1941) 




Pere Raymond Mailhiot 

881, Rang Camp 

X X 

A 

Natation/Canot 

Mme. B. Bellemare, Sec. 

Notre-Dame 



Hebertisme 

C.P. 27, Station R 

St-Liguori 



Piste & Pelouse 

Montreal H2S 3K6 

Cte Montcalm J0K 2X0 



Theatre 

(514-277-2382) 

(514-834-2852) 



Apprenti plein air 

NOTRE-DAME DES PETITS 

(1959) 




Soeur Monique Morin 

Ste-Julienne 

X X 

A 

Natation 

80 est, rue Laurier 

Cte Montcalm 



Hebertisme 

Montreal H2T 1E6 

J0K 2T0 



Chaloupe 

(514-276-2072/279-7311) 

(514-834-2065) 



Sciences naturelles 
Bricolage/Peinture 

NOTRE-DAME DU LAC SEPT-ILES (1948) 




1330 Chemin Ste-Foy 

Lac Sept-lles 

X X 

A 

Natation 

Quebec 6 

St-Raymond 



Camping 

(418-527-2555) 

Cte Portneuf 



Bricolage 


(418-337-2350) 



Canotage 

Tir a I'arc 

OASIS NOTRE-DAME (1924) 




M. Adrien Duperre, SV 

St-Leonard 

X X 

A 

Canot 

M. Charles-H. Audet, SV 

Cte Portneuf 



Natation 

804 Cote d'Abraham 

(418-337-6256) 



Camping 

Quebec G1R 1A3 




Sciences naturelles 

(418-525-7178) 




Arts plastiques 

OLIER (1954) 

M. Come Lalande, PSS 

R.R.no. 1 

X - 

A 

Exp. corporelle 

1931 ouest, Sherbrooke 

Piedmont 



Artisanat 

Montreal H3H 1E3 

Ste-Anne des Lacs 



Hebertisme 

(514-933-7869) 

(514-224-2004) 



Camping 

Tir a I'arc 

OOLAHWAN (1917) 

Mme Patterson 

C.P. 138 

X X 

A 

Natation 

1430 A St-Marc 

Ste-Marguerite du 



Arts 

Montreal 

Lac Masson 



Excursions 

(514-931-2572) 

Cte Terrebonne 



Sports 


(514-228-3310) 



Canot 

PHARNASOL (1972) 
Ginette-J. Morin 

Lac Vert 

X X 

A 

Arts 

C.P. 162, Succ. A 

Mont Pellier 



Canotage 

Longueuil 

Cte Papineau 



Natation 

(514-677-3463) 

(819-428-3591) 



Photographie 

Excursions 

RICHELIEU QUATRE-SAISONS (1964) 




M. Jean-Pierre Joly 

Grand Lac Cache 

X - 

A 

Canot-Camping 

20 St-Charles 

Labelle 



Escalade 

Ste-Therese 

Cte Labelle 



Orientation 

(514-435-5341) 

(819-686-2123) 



Trav. manuels Pleir 
Air/Rand. en foret 


PERIODES 
FRAIS PENSION 
ACCUEIL (Frais Inscription) 


145 garpons 7-16 “] 
100 filles 7-12 J 
115 garpons 7-16 "1 
80 filles 7-13 J 
30 garpons 7-10 "1 
20 filles 7-10 J 


20 garpons 8-15 
20 filles 7-15 


72 filles 8-12 


198 garpons 8-12 
68 filles 8-10 
36 garpons 13-14 


60 garpons 5-7 
60 filles 5-9 


40 garpons 7-10 
60 filles 7-16 


180 garpons 8-14 


60 garpons 12-16 


120 filles 7-15 


30 garpons 9-12 
30 filles 9-12 


Garpons et filles 
9-17 


24 juin-20 juil. 

25 juil.-20 aout 

25 juil.-6 aout 
8 aout-20 aout 
$85.00/semaine 
($25.00) 

Periodes a determiner 
$35.00/semaine 
(a determiner) 


29 juin-18 juil. 
20 juil.- 8 aout 
$35.00/semaine 
($ 10 . 00 ) 


28 juin-16 juil. 
19 juil.-2 aout 
5 aout-23 aout 
$35.00/semaine 
($15.00) 


20 juin-9 juil. 

11 juil.-30 juil. 

1 aout-13 aout 
$55.00/semaine 
($ 10 . 00 ) 


30 juin-25 juil. 
28 juil.-22 aout 
$275.00/periode 
($25.00) 


22 juin-19 juil. 
24 juil.-19 aout 
periode: 2 sem. 
$35.00/Semaine 
$140.00/Mois 
($ 10 . 00 ) 


Periode: 2 sem. 
29 juin-10 aout 
$40.00/Semaine 
($5.00) 


$160.00/2 semaines 


1 juil.-30 aout 
$70.00/Semaine 
($5.00) 


Periode: 1 ou 2 
semaines 
Fins de semaine 
variable 


75 




QUEBEC (Section frangaise) 


SECRETARIAT (HIVER) 

CAMP (ETE) 

PERSONNEL 

pay£ 

INFIRMIERE 

LIC. 

MLDLCIN 

resident (R) 

sur appel (A) 

5 ACTIVITES 
PRINCIPALES 

ACCUEIL 

PERIODES 
FRAIS PENSION 
(Frais Inscription) 

RICHELIEU ST-CLEMENT (1965) 







M. Bernard Demers 

C.P. 30 




Natation 

60 filles 8-12 - 

30 juin-11 juil. 

C.P. 30 

St-Come 




Athletisme 

60 garpons 8-12 - 

14 juil.-25 juil. 

St-Come 

Cte Joliette 




Survie 

60 filles 8-12 - 

28 juil.- 8 aout 

Cte Joliette 

(514-883-6446) 




Sciences naturelles 

60 garpons 8-12 — 

11 aout-22 aout 

(514-883-6446) 





Arts plastiques 


$45.00/Semaine 

ST-ALEXIS DES MONTS 







Mme Jean-Raymond Boudou 

C.P. 271 

X 

— 

A 

Artisanat 

20 garpons 6-13 

20 juin-14 juil. 

5607 Darlington 

Riviere aux Ecorces 




Camping 

20 filles 6-12 

$75.00/semaine 

Montreal H3T 1T1 

(819-265-2348) 




Hebertisme 


($10.00) 

(514-731-4877) 





Natation 








Tirs: arc/carabine 



ST-DONAT (F.O.C.C.F.) 

(1968) 







M. Bernard C. Miron 

St-Donat 

X 

X 

A 

Natation 

300 garpons 9-14 

25 juin-19 juil. 

493 ouest, Sherbrooke 

Cte Montcalm 




Tir a Fare 


23 juil.-16 aout 

Montreal H3A 1B6 

(819-424-2525) 




Canot 


Echelle proportion- 

Campeurs (514-845-7639) 





Camping 


nelle 

Moniteurs (514-933-3036) 





Voile 



ST-FRANCOIS (BLACK 

LAKE) (1957) 







Soeur Gertrude Fortier 

C.P. 98 

— 

— 

A 

Natation 

25 garpons 6-11 

29 juin-19 juil. 

Sr. Jeanne Belanger, Sec. 

Maison Nazareth 




Sciences naturelles 

25 filles 6-12 

20 juil.- 9 aout 

C.P. 98, Maison Nazareth 

Black Lake 




Bricolage 


$45.00/Semaine 

Black Lake, Cte Megantic 

Cte Megantic 




Tir a I'arc 


($10.00) 

(418-4234733) 

(418-423-5833) 




Hebertisme 



ST-FRANCOIS (ILE D'ORLEANS) (1949) 







M. Jean-Leon Carette 

St-Frangois 

X 

X 

A 

Natation 

80 filles 7-13 - 

3 juil.-23 juil. 

M. Michel Proulx 

lie d'Orleans 




Camping 

80 garpons 7-12 — 

28 juil.-17 aout 

Grand Seminaire, ch: 2137 

(418-829-2453) 




Tir a I'arc 


$150.00/3 semaines 

Universite Laval, Quebec 





Arts Plastiques 


($15.00) 

(418-658-7110) 





Sciences naturelles 



STE-JEANNE D'ARC (1926) 







(La Fondation du Club St-Laurent Kiwanis Inc.) 







Madame Madeleine Harel 

1343 Marie-Victorin 




Natation 

144 filles 6-12 -f 

'25 juin-14 juil. 

M. Robert Harel 

R.R. no.2 




Hebertisme 

16 filles 13-14 - 

15 juil.- 3 aout 

10, St-Jacques, ch: 602 

Contrecoeur 




Arts plastiques 

l 

- 4 aout-23 aout 

Montreal H2Y 1 L2 

(514-743-7315) 




Sciences naturelles 


Echelle proportion- 

(514-849-5955) 





Camping 


nelle. ($3.00) 

ST-MICHEL (1955) 








M. Raymond Desy 

Lac a la Truite 







M. Real Longpre 

R.R. no.3 







(514-524-3681) 

St-Michel des Saints 








Berthier 








(514-833-6781) 







ST-STANISLAS (CANTON DES JEUNES) (1952) 







M. Arthur Fardais 

R.R. #1 

X 

X 

A 

Canot 

50 garpons 7-12 

juin - juillet 

111 Champlain 

Low 




Tir a I'arc 

50 filles 7-12 

juillet - aout 

Hull 

Cte Gatineau 




Camping 


$65.00/2 semaines 

(613-777-4387) 

(819-422-3442) 




Hebertisme 


($20.00) 

ST-VIATEUR (1960) 








M. J.-Baptiste Genest 

Port-aux-Saumons 

— 

X 

A 

Sciences naturelles 

50 garpons 

5 juil.-19 juil. 

450 Querbes, 

St-Fidele 




Camping 

50 filles 

26 juil.-9 aout 

Montreal 

Cte Charlevois 




Natation 


$52.50/semaine 

(514-274-3624) 

(418-434-2280) 




Sport 


($15.00) 






Excursions 



ST-VINCENT DE PAUL EN HAUT (1968) 







M. J.C. Chartrand, Ptre 

St-Theodore de Chertsey X 

X 

A 

Tir a I'arc 

40 garpons 11-14 

28 juin-10 juil. 

Mile Claire Menard 

Cte Montcalm 




Athletisme 

7-10 

12 juil.-24 juil. 

2310 est, Ste-Catherine 

(514-883-6327) 




Camping 

40 filles 7-10 

26 juil.-7 aout 

Montreal H2K 2J4 





Arts plastiques 

11-14 

9 aout-21 aout 

(514-526-3331) 





Explo Nature 


$35.00/semaine 








($5.00) 

SANTE BRUCHESI (1925) (F.O.C.C.F.) 







Mile Leonie Normandeau 

365e Avenue 

X 

X 

A 

Natation 

240 garpons 7-13 

26 juin-18 juil. 

2225 est, rue Rachel 

Lac I'Achigan 




Hebertisme 

160 filles 7-11 

24 juil.-15 aout 

Montreal 

Cte Terrebonne 




Athletisme 


Echelle proportion- 

Campeurs (514-845-7639) 

J0R 1P0 




Sciences naturelles 


nelle. 

Moniteurs (514-527-2831) 

(514-563-3056) 




Artisanat 




76 





QUEBEC (Section frangaise) 




_l lu 

LU 0C 







Z W 

z cc- 







o «- ® 
jijSa 



PERI ODES 

SECRETARIAT (HIVER) 

CAMP (ETE) 

C0> u-6 

ULI< 

Q- CL — -1 

LJ -a ro 
IUml 
«5‘<D D 

eZ. i_ CO 

5 ACTIVITES 
PRINCIPALES 

ACCUEIL 

FRAIS PENSION 
(Frais Inscription) 

SAVIO (1961) 

M. Bob Gagne 

Katevale 

X X 

A 

Aquatiques 

225 gargons 8-14 

29 juin-16 aout 

Seminaire Salesien 

(819-843-2828) 



Bricolart 


29 juin-13 juil. 

Rue Don Bosco 




Sciences naturelles 


29 juin-27 juil. 

Sherbrooke J1 L 1 E5 




Tir a I'arc 


13 juil.-27 juil. 

(819-569-2222) 




Carabines 


27 juil.-16 aout 
$35.00/Semaine 







($10.00) 

TROIS-SAUMONS (CAMP-ECOLE) (1946) 






M. Pierre Bigaouette 

Lac Trois-Saumons 

X X 

A 

Camping 

100 gargons 7-13 1 

| 24 juin-25 juil. 

M. Roland Comeau 

Cte I'lslet 



Canots/Chaloupes 

160 titles 7-15 J 

11 est, rue Cremazie 

G0R 1V0 



Arts/Natation 

80 gargons 7-13 1 

| 25 juil.-20 aout 

Quebec G1R 1Y1 

(418-598-6410) 



Sciences naturelles 

140 titles 7-15 

(418-529-5323) 




Tirs/Hebertisme 

20 gargons 7-8 1 

1 24 juin-6 aout 






20 f illes 7-8 J 

1 8aout-20aout 






40 gargons 7-10 1 

1 25 juil.-6 aout 






40 titles 7-10 J 

1 8aout-20aout 
$85.00/semaine 







($25.00) 

VAL HEUREUX (1958) 

M. Gabriel Goudreau 

St-Paulin 


A 

Tir a I'arc 

50 gargons 12-16 

27 juin-16 juil. 

St-Paulin 

Cte Maskinonge 



Camping 


18 juil.-30 aout 

Cte Maskinonge 

JOK 3G0 



Hebertisme 


1 aout-15 aout 

JOK 3G0 

(819-268-2088) 



Arts plastiques 


$50.00/semaine 

(819-268-2088) 




Natation 


($10.00) 

VIVALDI (CAMP MUSICAL) (1970) 






M. Fernand Langlais 

2110 des Appalaches 

X X 

A 

Musique (inst.) 

200 mixte 5-17 

5 juil.-23 juil. 

Mme Louise Triquet 

Ste-Foy 



Arts plastiques 


$54.25/semaine 

C.P. 10003 

(418-656-6785) 



Rythmique 


($25.00) 

Quebec 10 




Natation 



(418-656-6639) 




Tir-a-l'arc 



VIVE LA JOIE (1960) 

M. Philippe Lagace 

4e rang 



Natation 

150 mixte 

(a determiner) 

8 Du Rocher 

St-Modeste 



Canotage 


($5.00) 

Riviere-du-Loup 

(819-862-5919) 



Tir-a-l'arc 



(819-862-6996) 




Vie pleine nature 





CAMPS SPECIALISES 



Dans le but d'aider les gens a la recherche de camps specialises, nous vous offrons la liste suivante. 


En general, ces camps sont bilingues. 



CAMP DES ENFANTS INFIRMES (1938) 
(Societe pour les Enfants Infirmes du Quebec) 






M. Yves Beauregard 

St-Alphonse de 

X R 

R 

Natation 

80 gargons 19+ 

1 4 juin-18 juin 

1455, rue Rochon 

Rodriguez 



Canot/Voile 

80 tilles 19+ 

J a determiner 

Montreal H4L 1W1 

Cte Joliette 



Camping 

20 gargons 2-6 

] 25 juin-23 juil. 

(514-748-8816) 

(514-883-9915) 



Tir a I'arc 

20 tilles 2-6 





Arts Plastiques 

105 gargons 13-18“ 
105 tilles 13-18 - 

] 25 juin-23 juil. 






125 gargons 2-12 
125 tilles 2-12 

] 27 juil.-18 aout 
Echelle proportion- 







nelle 

/A 4 r\ r\r\\ 

CAROWANIS (1958) 






($1 0.00) 

(Camp pour les Enfants diabetiques du Quebec) 






M. Robert Vallerand 

C.P. 280 

X X 

R 

Natation 

50 gargons 8-15 

5 juil.-26 juil. 

Mme Norma Grant, Regis. 

Ste-Agathe 



Hebertisme 

50 tilles 8-15 

26 juil.-16 aout 

4845 o. rue Sherbrooke 

J8C 3A3 



Artisanat 


Echelle proportion- 

Montreal H3Z 1G6 

(819-326-2456) 



Canot 


nelle. 

(514-932-4768) 




Tennis 



CENTRE DE VACANCES DE L'ASSOCIATION DE PARALYSIE 

CEREBRALE (1949) 



M. Jacques Corbeil 

490 Lacolle 

X X 

A 

Sports 

18 gargons 18-40 

Periode: 27 jours 

3015 o. rue Sherbrooke 

Cantic 



Voyages 

18 tilles 18-40 

Echelle proportion- 

No. 217 

Cte St-Jean 



Excursions 


nelle. 

Montreal H3Z 1A1 

(514-246-3554) 



Soirees recreatives 


($5.00) 


(514-937-9143) 

CENTRE DE PLEIN AIR LA CALECHE (1969) 

M. Rene Rousseau 125, Tour du Lac 

125, Tour du Lac Ste-Agathe 

Ste-Agathe (819-326-3753) 

(819-326-3753) 


Activ. culturelles 


(Reserve aux enfants de I'l nstitution) 


77 




QUEBEC (Section f rangaise) 


SECRETARIAT (HIVER) 

CAMP (ETE) 

PERSONNEL 

PAYS 

infirmiere 

Lie. 

MEDECIN 

resident (R) 

sur appel (A) 

5 ACTIVITES 
PRINCIPALES 

ACCUEIL 

PERIODES 
FRAIS PENSION 
(Frais Inscription) 

CENTRES MARRONNIERS INC. (1970) 






M. Robert Perrault 

34 Rte du Vieux 

X 

A 

Act. Socio-Cult. 

30 gargons 18+ 

14 juin-29 aout 

5695 Ave. des Marronniers 

Moulin 



Act. nautiques 


Echelle proportion- 

Montreal HIT 2W3 

lie Perrot 



Arts plastiques 


nelle 


(514-453-4187) 



Sports 

(Reserve aux jeunes adultes des centres 





Sorties educatives 

marronniers) 

DOMAINE DESCIMES 







M. Leonce St-Pierre 

Cote Ste-Antoine 

X 

X A 


(Reserve aux enfants de I'Hopital Ste-Anne) 

Hopital Ste*Anne 

Baie St-Paul 




Echelle proportionelle 

Baie St-Paul 

Cte Charlevoix 






Cte Charlevoix 

(418-435-2005) 






(418-435-2005) 







DOMAINE DES PRES (1973) (ASSOCIATION DES ENFANTS DEFICIENTS DE LAVAL) 


M. Roger Couillard 

St-Aime du Lac 

X 

A 

(Reserve aux enfants de ville 

de Laval) 

Mme Jaslow, Sec. 

des lies 






3757, 2e rue 

Cte Labelle 






Chomedey, Laval 







(514-688-2801) 







GATINEAU (1970) 







M. Michel Charbonneau 

Ste-Cecile de Masham 

X 

X A 

Natation 

225 gargons 8-30 

27 juin-16 juil. 

Ste-Cecile de Masham 

Cte Pontiac 



Balle molle 

225 filles 8-30 

18 juil.-6 aout 

Cte Pontiac 

(819-456-2002) 



Camping 


8 aout-27 aout 

(819-456-2002) 




Bricolage 


Echelle proportion- 





Hebertisme 


nelle 

MASSAWIPPI (1951) 







(Mackay Center pour les 

Enfants Sourds et Infirmes) 





M. Carman Bradley 

Ayer's Cliff 

X 

X A 

Hobbycraft 

50 gargons 7-17 

Periode: 6 semaines 

3500 boul. Decarie 

(819-838-4707) 



Canotage 

50 filles 7-17 

Juillet et aout 

Montreal H4A 3J5 




Tir a I'arc 


No charge — 

(514-482-0500) 




Excursions 


students of Mackay. 





Volleyball 


$10.00 others 

PAVILLON ROTARY (1963) 






M. Maurice Lefebvre 

2434 Marie-Victorin 



(Reserve aux enfants du Centre de Readaptation) 

265 ouest St-Cyrille 

St-Nicolas 






Quebec 

(418-831-9913) 






(418-522-4241) 







TERRE DES JEUNES STE-JULIENNE (1971) 






M. Justin Bournival 

2973 Rang du Cordon 

X 

X A 

Camping 

35 gargons 6+ 

27 juin-15 juil. 

Mme Carmen S. Bournival 

(514-831-2147) 



Excursions 

35 filles 6+ 

18 juil.-5 aout 

1086 J.J. Joubert 




Natation 


8 aout-26 aout 

Laval 




Equitation 


$35.00/semaine 

(514-667-6595) 




Agriculture 


($5.00) 

VILLA NOTRE-DAME DE FATIMA (1948) 






Abbe Paul Leboeuf 

R.R. no.1 

X 

A 

Bricolage 

16 gargons 5-8 

"1 2 periodes de 

Abbe Gerard Hebert 

Les Chenaux 



Natation 

16 filles 5-15 

J 2 semaines 

3747 rue St-Denis 

Vaudreuil 



Ski nautique 

32 filles 5-15 

2 periodes de 

Montreal H2X 3L8 

J7V 5V5 



Bicyclette 


2 semaines 

(514-849-6109) 

(514-455-3838) 



Hebertisme 


($5.00) 


(Reserve aux enfants sourds) 


78 





ZiEngli/h /cctiony 

Executive Secretary: 
Miss Frances M. Kelly, 
2233 Belgrave Avenue, 
Montreal, Quebec 
H4A2L9 
(514) 489-1541 


HONORARY PRESIDENTS 
HONORARY MEMBERS 


PRESIDENT 

VICE-PRESIDENTS 

TREASURER 
SECRETARY 
PAST PRESIDENT 
COMMITTEE CHAIRMEN 


MEMBERS WITHOUT PORTFOLIO 


MRS. ALTA R. KAHN 

MR. F.M. VAN WAGNER 

JUDGE JULES LEAVITT 

MR. A.R. SEAMAN 

MR.T. SHORGAN 

MRS. VAL WILLIS 

MRS. BARBARA PATTERSON 

MR. W. JACKSON 

MRS. BARBARA REEVES 

MR. J.A. FRIEDMAN 

MR. ZAVE ETTINGER 


MR. KEN MURRAY 

MR. & MRS. NEIL B. POWTER 


MR. DOUG ANAKIN - Co-Chairmen Staff Training 

MR. ROY SHETLER - Co-Chairmen Staff Training 

MRS. SOPHIA DEMETELIN - Directory and Membership 

MR. LEON HOCHGLAUBE - Day Camping 

MR. JOSEPH A. HOOD - Co-Chairmen Program 

MR. HARRY ZARINS - Co-Chairmen Program 

MR. ISAAC KATOFSKY - Senior Citizens 

MISS FRANCES M. KELLY - Staff Placement Bureau 

MR. WALTER MING IE - Outdoor Education 

MR. SIDNEY SUNDBORG - Conference 

MR. PETER VAN WAGNER - Standards 

MR. DEREK WALSH - Publicity and Public Relations 

DR. KENNETH R. Wl LLIS - Constitution and By-Laws 

MRS. KENNETH R. WILLIS - Ethics 

MRS. ALTA R. KAHN MR. ROBERT LAZANIK 

MR. KENNETH MURRAY MR. NEIL B. POWTER 

MR. A. ROSS SEAMAN MR. TONY SHORGAN 

MR. JULES LEAVITT, Q.C. MR. F.M. VAN WAGNER 


QUEBEC CAMPING ASSOCIATION 

The QUEBEC CAMPING ASSOCIATION INC. - L'ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU QUEBEC INC. is a bilingual non-profit 
organization incorporated under Quebec law, January 23rd, 1961. The English Section was started in 1937, and was incor¬ 
porated by Federal Charter in 1949. It is affiliated with the CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION. 

Our Association is a voluntary organization, composed of Camp Owners, Directors, Senior Staff, Counsellors, Commercial 
Members and interested individuals working together to develop and maintain the highest possible standards of camp opera¬ 
tion by our members in Quebec. A varied programme of activities enables members to keep abreast of the latest developments 
in the field of camping, to study common problems and to exchange ideas as to their possible solution. The ultimate purpose 
of all this activity is to ensure the excellence of the camping experiences of our Quebec youth. Increasingly, it is realized that 
this experience is an educational, as well as a recreational one. It is perhaps the ideal environment for a child's social-emotional 
growth. 

This list of accredited member camps is intended primarily for those persons interested in sending their children to camp. All 
the camps listed have been inspected and found to meet the standards of the Q.C.A. — A.C.Q. The Association, however, does 
not supervise these camps in any way. For this reason, and because only parents themselves are fully aware of their particular 
needs and wants, the Q.C.A. — A.C.Q. does not undertake to recommend any one camp or individual. 

The information contained in this Directory is supplied by the member accredited camps, and is correct to the best of our 
knowledge at the time of publication; however, the Q.C.A. — A.C.Q. does not accept responsibility for any errors, omissions 
or individual camp changes. 

For further information the individual Directors and/or Owners should be consulted. 

The use of this directory for commercial purposes without the written consent of the Q.C.A. — A.C.Q. is prohibited. 


79 


QUEBEC (English section) 


GROUPED INDEX OF ACCREDITED MEMBER CAMPS 


Private Residential — Boys 
National Hockey School 
Nominingue 

Private Residential — Girls 
Ouareau 

Private Residential — Co-ed 

Cloud's Hill — Colline aux Nuages 

Demetelin 

Elgin Gym 

Hiawatha 

MaroMac 

Mere M.L. Clarac 

Pembina 

Pine Valley 

Robinson 

Sans Souci Riding Center 
Walvaken 


Organizational Residential — Boys 
Camp Lewis 
Quebec Lodge 
Trail's End 

Organizational Residential - Girls 

Lighthall 

Oolahwan 

Orelda-Marian 

Quebec Lodge 

Wa-Thik-Ane (GGOC) 

Organizational Residential - Co-ed 

Amy Molson 

Billium Hagshama 

B'nai B'rith 

Frontier Lodge 

Kanawana/Les Voyageurs de la Verendrie 
Massad 


Organizational Residential-Co-ed contd 

Wooden Acres 
YM-YMHA Country Camp 

Day Camps 

Cherokee Country Day Camp 
Green Acres 

North/Am Hockey School 
Perrot 

Shaar Shalom Synagogue 
YM-YMHA 

Family Camps 

Chapleau of the Old Brewery Mission 

Kinkora 

Orelda-Marian 

Senior Citizens 

Jewish Laurentian Fresh Air 


SPECIALIZED CAMPS 


C a rowan is — Diabetic Children 
Centre de Vacances de I'Association de 
Paralysie Cerebrale 

Centre de Plain Air La Caleche — Socia/ly- 
Emo ti on ally D istu rbed 

Centre Marronniers - Mentally Retarded Adults 
Domaine des Cimes 
Domaine des Pres 


Crippled Children - Phys. Handicapped-Heart Cases- 
Cyst. Fibrosis 

Gatineau — Mentally Retarded 
Massawippi - Deaf - Crippled Children 
Pavilion Rotary 

Terre des Jeunes (Ste-Julienne) — Different Handicaps 
Villa Notre-Dame de Fatima — For Deaf Children 


Boys' Clubs of Canada 
Mr. J.A. Hood 
35 York Street 
Montreal, Que. H3Z 1N7 
(514-481-0108) 

The Canadian Red Cross Society 
Mr. Jean-Denis Godbout 
2170 Dorchester Blvd. West 
Montreal, Que. H3M 1 R6 
(514-937-7761) 


Adelstein, Mrs. Thelma 

Jewish Laurentian Fresh Air Camp 
Belmonte, Dr. Mimi 
Camp Carowanis 
Berlettano, Mr. Joseph 

Federated Appeal of Greater Montreal 
Broodney, Mr. Harry 
Camp Thunderbird 
Broodney, Mr. Norman 
Camp Thunderbird 
Brugman, Mr. George 
Camp Weredale 


ORGANIZATIONAL MEMBERS 

The Royal Life Saving Society 
Mr. Pierre Jobidon 
1415 Jarry E. 

Montreal, Que. 

(514-374-4700) 

Dawson College, CRL Dept. 

Mr. A. Ross Seaman 
535 Viger Street 
Montreal, Que. H2L 2P3 
(514-849-2351) 


INDIVIDUAL MEMBERS 

Carstensen, Mr. A. 

Quebec Camping Association Inc. 
Carstensen, Mrs. A. 

Quebec Camping Association Inc. 
Crochetiere, Mr. Henry 
St-Patrick's Camp 
Danis, Mrs. Marion 

Camp Chapleau of the Old Brewery 
Mission 

Davis, Mr. Caleb 
Camp Nominingue 
Ettinger, Mr. Zave 

Quebec Camping Association Inc. 


The Suburban 

Mrs. Sophie Wollock 

8170 Wavell Road 

Cote St. Luc, Que. H4W 1M3 

(514-484-1107) 


Frank, Mr. Philip 
Camp B'nai B'rith 
Gilbert, Mr. Peter 
Camp Nominingue 
Kahn, Mrs. Alta R. 

Honorary President — Q.C.A. 

Kelly, Miss Frances M. 

Quebec Camping Association Inc. 
Lavoie, Miss Jacqueline 

Association des Camps du Quebec Inc. 
Lazanik, Mrs. Robert 
Pine Valley Camp 


80 



QUEBEC (English section) 


Leavitt, Judge Jules 

Quebec Camping Association Inc. 
Mackay, Rev. A. Ross 

Gracefield Presbyterian Camp 
Magil, Mr. William 
Camp B'nai B'rith 
McBride, Miss Maureen 

Quebec Camping Association Inc. 
McGavock, Mr. Neil 
Camp Nominingue 
Milchin, Mrs. Janet-Spector 
Jewish Community Camps 
Mingie, Mr. Walter 
Camp Carowanis 
Moller, Mrs. Elsa 
Pinerose Camp 
Murray, Mr. Ken 

Quebec Camping Association Inc. 
Olshansky, Mr. Perry 

Quebec Camping Association 
Owens, Mr. O.N.H. 

Quebec Camping Association 
Page, Mr. Richard 
Camp La Source 


Page, Mr. Robert 

Cloud's Hill—Colline aux Nuages 
Percival, Miss Dorothy 

Quebec Camping Association Inc. 
Phillips, Mrs. Ethel 

Jewish Community Camps 
Powter, Mr. Neil B. 

Honorary Member — Q.C.A. 
Powter, Mrs. Neil B. 

Honorary Member — Q.C.A. 

Price, Mrs. Greville 

Cloud's Hill—Coll ine aux Nuages 
Reeves, Mrs. D. Jacques 

Quebec Camping Association Inc. 
Riley, Mr. Douglas 
Camp Nominingue 
Rimer, Mr. Seymour 
Camp B'nai B'rith 
Robert, Mr. Andraas L. 

Camp Robinson 
Salt, Rev. Richard 
Quebec Lodge Camp 
Schmeler, Mrs. Wilma 
Camp Garagona 
Seaman, Mr. A. Ross 

Quebec Camping Association Inc. 


Segal, Mr. Burt 
Camp B'nai B'rith 
Shetler, Mr. Roy 

Quebec Camping Association Inc. 
Shorgan, Mr. Tony 

Honorary Member — Q.C.A. 

Smith, Mr. Trevor 
Camp Nominingue 
Spinder, Mr. William 
Camp B'nai B'rith 
Thomas, Mr. David 
Camp Nominingue 
Vail, Miss Anne I. 

Honorary Member - Q.C.A. 

Van Wagner, Mr. F.M. 

Honorary President — Q.C.A. 

Waite, Mr. Don 

Camp Chapleau of the Old Brewery 
Mission 

Walsh, Mr. Greg. 

Quebec Camping Association Inc. 
Wilkinson, Dr. Robert 

Quebec Camping Association Inc. 
Wood, Mr. David W. 

Camp Nominingue 


Brooks, Mr. Norman 
Camp Nominingue 
Demetelin, Miss Eirini 
Camp Demetelin 
Kinsella, Mr. Jim 
Camp Nominingue 


STUDENT MEMBERS 

Lasusa, Mr. Peter 
Camp Nominingue 
Markham, Mr. Stewart 
Camp Nominingue 
McGavock, Mr. Paul 
Camp Nominingue 


Nixon, Mr. Robert 
Camp Nominingue 
Rossy, Mr. Paul 
Camp Nominingue 
Warren, Mr. Geoff 
Camp Nominingue 


OFFICE (WINTER) 


ACCREDITED MEMBER CAMPS 


CAMP (SUMMER) 


O 

ID 

CC __ 

id tr^o 

9 ucc o-S 5 

< Si§i§ 


< 

I- 


5 CAMP 
ACTIVITIES 


AMY MOLSON (1944) 
Mrs. Barbara Patterson 
1430 A St-Marc 
Montreal 
(514-931-2572) 


Box 179, Grenville 
Argenteuil Co., 
JOV 1J0 
(819-242-6083) 


BILLIUM HAGSHAMA 

Mr. Rofi Hermesh 
5319 Decarie Ave. 
Montreal, H3W 3C4 


Lac Mercier 
Mt-T remblant 
Quebec JOT 1Z0 


B'NAI B'RITH INC. (1921) 
5151 St. Ste. Catherine 
no.203 

Montreal, H3W 1M6 
(514-735-3669) 


CHAPLEAU OF THE OLD 
BREWERY MISSION (1906) 

Rev. J.W. McCarthy R.R. no. 1 

P.O. Box 1445 Montfort, JOT 1Y0 

Montreal, H2Y 3K8 (514-226-6591) 

(514-866-6591) 


R.R. no.1 
Lantier, JOT 2C0 
(819-326-4824) 


XX C Swimming 
Boating 
Arts & Crafts 
Nature Lore 
Sports 


XX C Canoeing 

Swimming 
Water skiing 
Arts & Crafts 
Sports 

XX R Hiking 

Tripping 
Swimming 
Arts & Crafts 
Canoeing 


XX C Swimming 
Boating 
Handicrafts 
Hiking 
Canoeing 


ACCOMMODATION SEASON/FEES 


72 boys 5-8 
72 girls 5-8 


85 boys 8-13 
85 girls 8-13 


250 boys 9-16 
250 girls 9-16 


July 3-July 20 
July 24-Aug. 10 
Aug. 14-Aug. 31 
Sliding scale 


July & August 
(fees available 
on request) 


2 periods 
Sliding scale 


400 persons Period: 2 weeks 

Children: 3 months July 3-August 21 
to 14 years Sliding Scale 

with Mothers 
(Age unlimited) 


81 




QUEBEC (English section) 


OFFICE (WINTER) 

CAMP (SUMMER) 

PAID STAFF 

REGISTERED 

NURSE 

DOCTOR 

resident (R) 

on call (C) 

5 CAMP 
ACTIVITIES 

ACCOMMODATION 

SEASON/FEES 

CHEROKEE COUNTRY DAY CAMP 







AND VOYAGEURS (1972) 








Mr. William Roszler 

Lac Fournel 

X 

X 

C 

Swimming 

150 boys 4-16 

July-August 

Mr. James Allister 

St. Hippolyte 




Boating 

150 girls 4-16 

(various) 

3804 Harvard Ave. 

Quebec 




Sailing 


Discount schedules 

Montreal, H4A 2W5 

(514-861-4046) 




Canoeing 



(514-861-4046) 





Pottery 



CLOUD'S HILL—COLLINE AUX NUAGES 







(1952) (International Language Camp) 







Mrs. A.S. Keator 

Lac Orignal 

X 

X 

C 

Languages 

80 boys 8-16 

Minimum 2 week 

510 Grosvenor Avenue 

Terrebonne Co. 




Waterfront 

80 girls 8-17 

periods available: 

Montreal, H3Y 2S4 

(816-326-0175) 




Mountain Climbing 


2, 3, 5, 6, 8 weeks 

(514-937-4790) 





Film making 


$125.00/1 week 






Riflery 


Trans, not included 

DEMETELIN (1960) 








Mr. & Mrs. N.D. Demetelin 

R.R.no. 1 

X 

X 

C 

French Convers. 

20 boys 6-10 

June 24-August 12 

515 Rockland Road, TMR 

St. Donat, JOT 2C0 




Swimming 

60 girls 6-15 

$ 100.00/week 

Montreal, H3P 2X1 

(819-424-5590) 




Canoeing 



(514-527-9874) 





Riding (extra) 



(514-739-5263 





Arts & Crafts 



ELGIN GYM CAMP (1962) 








Mr. & Mrs. D.F. Cochrane 

St. Aubert 

X 

X 

C 

4-5 hrs. Gymnastics 

30 boys 8-16 

July 1 

540 Rockhill Crescent 

L'Islet Co. 




Diving 

40 girls 8-16 

2 weeks 

Beaurepaire, H9W 3G3 

(418-598-6844) 




Hiking 


4 weeks 

(514-695-4267) 





Archery 


6 weeks 






Swimming 


$100.00/week 

FRONTIER LODGE (1933) 








Mr. Joseph Kass 

R.R. no.2 

- 

X 

C 

Bible teaching 

Jr. camp"! 

July 4-July 17 

245 Hymus Blvd. 

St. Hermenegilde 




Swimming 

42 boys - 

- $75.00/2 weeks 

Pointe Claire, H9R 1G6 

JOB 3E0 




Boating 

44 girls J 

($20.00) 

(514-695-5511) 

(514-844-2277) 




Handicrafts 

86 girls - 

- Aug. 1-Aug. 14 






Camp fires 

86 boys - 

- Aug. 15-Aug. 28 






Youth conference— 

48 boys “I 

48 girls J 

- Aug. 28-Sept. 6 

GREEN ACRES DAY CAMP 

(1966) 







Mr. Leon Hochglaube 

230 Ste. Marianne 

X 

X 

C 

Swimming 

200 boys 4-14 

June 29-Aug. 20 

Mr. Eddy Bogomolny 

Ste. Therese West 




Nature Lore 

200 girls 4-14 

For fee schedule 

5465 Queen Mary Road 

J7E 4H5 




Sports 


contact the camp 

Montreal, H3X 1V5 

(514-430-0081) 




Fine Arts 


office. 

(514-488-9148) 





Riding (extra) 



HIAWATHA (1932) 








Mr. & Mrs. B. Jacobson 

R.R. no.2 

X 

X 

R 

Tennis 

85 boys 5-16 

June 24-August 18 

6595 Cdte St. Luc Rd., 

Ste. Agathe des Monts 




Golf 

85 girls 5-16 

July & August 

No. 203 

(819-326-0577) 




Ice Hockey 


8 Weeks 

Montreal, H4V 1G7 





All Aquatics 


Fee on request 

(514-481-1690) 





All Land Sports 



JEWISH LAURENTIAN FRESH AIR CAMP 







(1927) (Golden Age Association) 







Mrs. Ethel Phillips 

St. Hippolyte 

X 

X 

C 

Art 

35 men 60+ 

Period: 2 weeks 

5151 Ct. Ste. Catherine 

(514-563-3357) 




Swimming 

35 women 60+ 

June - August 

Montreal, H3W 1M6 





Dance 

Association 

Sliding Scale 

(514-735-3669) 





Discussions 

Members 







Drama 



KANAWANA (1894) — Les Voyageurs de la Verendrye 





Derek V. Walsh 

P.O. Box 310 

X 

X 

C 

Tripping 

98 boys 8-15 

June 28-July 12 

1441 Drummond St. 

St. Sauveur 




Canoeing 

91 girls 8-15 

July 12-July 26 

Montreal, H3G 1W5 

Monts, Que. 




Orienteering 


July 29-Aug. 12 

(514-849-5331) 

(514-227-2414) 




Arts & Crafts 


Aug. 12-Aug. 26 






Sailing 


$210.00/2 weeks 








Add. 2 weeks/$190. 

KINKORA (1926) 








Mr. Wilfred Jackson 

St. Adolphe 

X 

X 

C 

Swimming 

470 Campers & 

July and August 

1857 de Maisonneuve 

de Howard, Que. 




Arts & Crafts 

Families 

Sliding Scale 

Montreal 

(819-327-2255) 




Music 



(514-937-5351) 





Liturgy 








Sports 



LEWIS (1918) 








Mr. Doug. Anakin 

St. Adolphe de 

X 

X 

R 

Swimming lessons 

200 boys 6-14 

June 14-July 25 

1390 Sherbrooke St. W. 

Howard, Que. 




Free swim 


July 18-Aug. 8 

Suite 36 

(819-327-2064) 




Canoeing 


Aug. 11-Aug. 22 

Montreal, H3G 1J9 





Nature crafts 


$75.00/12 days 

(514-842-8261) 





Physical fitness 




82 













QUEBEC (English section) 


OFFICE (WINTER) 

CAMP (SUMMER) 

PAID STAFF 

REGISTERED 

NURSE 

DOCTOR 

resident (R) 

on call (C) 

5 CAMP 
ACTIVITIES 

ACCOMMODATION 

SEASON/FEES 

CAMP LIGHTHALL 







Mr. Doug. Anakin 

St. Saveur des Monts 

X X 

R 

Swimming lessons 

150 girls 6-14 

July 3-July 14 

1390 Sherbrooke St. W. 

Quebec 



Free swim 


July 17-July 28 

Suite 36 

(514-227-3781) 



Canoeing 


July 31-Aug. 11 

Montreal, H3G 1J9 




Nature crafts 


Aug. 14-Aug. 25 

(514-842-8261) 




Physical fitness 


$75.00/12 days 

MARO MAC (19681 







Syd & Esther Marovitch 

Val des Lacs 

X X 

R 

Water-Skiing 

100 boys 6-15 

Period: 8 weeks 

4548 — 8th Street 

R.R. no. 1 



Sailing 

100 girls 6-15 

$1150.00 

Chomedey, Laval 

Terrebonne Co. 



Tennis 


All inclusive 

H7W 2A4 

JOT 2P0 



Arts & Crafts 



(514-688-1753) 

(819-326-4488) 



Spec. Phys. Ed. 



MASSAD (1947) 







Mrs. Bernard Tonchin 

R.R. no. 1 

X X 

R 

Arts & Crafts 

85 boys 7-16 

July 4-Aug. 18 

5609 Cork Ave. 

Lac Carre 



Hebrew Culture 

85 girls 7-16 

Fees on request 

Montreal, H4W 1Z7 

Quebec 



Sports 



(514-481-7233) 

(819-326-4686) 



Swimming 







Tripping 



MERE M.L. CLARAC (1957) 






Sr. Louise Beaulac 

St. Donat 

X X 

C 

Archery 

60 boys 4-10 

June 28-Aug. 16 

Sr. Elizabeth Mayer 

Montcalm Co. 



Athletics 

120 girls 4-16 

$105.00/week 

3530 Gouin Blvd. East 

JOT 2C0 



Canoeing 


$20.00 Reg. Fee 

Montreal, H1H 1B7 

(819-424-2261) 



Swimming 



(514-322-1161) 




Riding (extra) 



NATIONAL HOCKEY SCHOOL INC. - 






ECOLE DE HOCKEY NATIONALE INC. (1971) 






Mr. Steve Stotland 

MacDonald College 

X X 

C 

Hockey (primary) 

160 boys 7-16 

June 27-Sept. 4 

V. Cournoyer/J. Lemaire 

Ste. Anne de Bellevue 



Floor hockey 


$170.00/week 

1700 Norman Street 

H9X 3M1 



Field Hockey 



Lachine, H8S 1A9 

(514-637-2394) 



Baseball 



(514-637-2394) 




Swimming 



NOMININGUE (1925) 







Mr. Peter Van Wagner 

Lac Nominingue 

X X 

R 

Canoe Tripping 

295 boys 7-15 

Periods: 

482 Strathmore Blvd. 

Labelle Co. 



Canoeing 


4 weeks $500.00 

Dorval, H9S 2J4 

J0W 1 R0 



Swimming 


6 weeks $725.00 

(514-631-1501) 

(819-278-3383) 



Sailing 


8 weeks $900.00 





Tennis 


$100.00/deposit 

OOLAHWAN (1917) 







Mrs. Patterson 

Lac Masson, Terrebonne 

X X 

C 

Swimming 

120 girls 7-15 

$160.00/2 weeks 

1430 A St. Marc 

P.O. Box 138 



Arts 


Sliding scale 

Montreal 

Ste. Marguerite, 



Tripping 



(514-931-2572) 

JOT 1 L0 



Sports 




(514-228-3310) 



Canoeing 



ORELDA (Families) MARIAN (Girls) 






Mr. Wilfred Jackson 

St. Gabriel de Brandon 

X X 

C 

Swimming 

100 girls 8-15 

Period: 16 days 

1857 de Maisonneuve 

Co. Berthier, Que. 



Boating 

12 Adults 55+ 

July - August 

Montreal 

(514-835-4656) 



Arts & Crafts 

and 9 families 

Sliding Scale 

(514-937-5351) 




Tripping 







Camp Craft 



OUAREAU (1922) 







Mrs. J.R. Allen 

R.R. no.1 

X X 

C 

Swimming 

100 girls 7-15 

June 28-July 26 

26 Lome Avenue 

St. Donat, JOT 2C0 



Sailing 


June 28-Aug. 25 

Lennoxville, JIM 1C8 

(819-424-2662) 



Canoeing 


Fees on request 

(819-562-9641) collect 

(Call Collect) 



Crafts 







Canoe Tripping 



PEMBINA (1947) 







Mrs. L. Morgenstern 

St. Donat 

X X 

R 

Water Sports 

130 boys 6-16 

July 2-Aug. 13 

Abe Rosen 

JOT 2C0 



Tripping 

130 girls 6-16 

$800.00/6 weeks 

3445 Ridgewood, no. 402 

(819-424-2565) 



Tennis 



Montreal, H3V 1B7 




Dramatics 



(514-733-0140) 




Arts & Crafts 



PERROT DAY CAMP (1948) (Y.M.C.A.) 






170 St. Louis Ave. 

2467 lie Perrot Blvd. 

X X 

C 

Swimming 

410 boys 4-12 

July 7-August 8 

Pointe Claire, Que. 

Me Perrot, Que. 



Gymnastics 

291 girls 4-12 

Fees on Request 

H9R 2A8 

(514-453-3348) 






(514-695-9561) 







PINE ROSE (1973) 







Mrs. Elsa Moller 

P.O. Box 66 

X X 

C 

Swimming 

20 boys 6-15 

June 28-Aug. 23 

4850 Cote St. Luc 

Morin Heights 



Water Skiing 

20 girls 6-15 

$350.00/4 weeks 

no. 310 

Co. Mille lies, Que. 



Tennis 

20 boys 6-15 

$650.00/8 weeks 

Montreal, Que. 

(514-226-2109) 



Dramatics 



(514-489-0714) 




Archery 




83 






QUEBEC (English section) 






U- 

LL 

< 

1— 

to 

o 

< 

EGISTERED 

URSE 

(E— O 
Pc — 

o-SS 

O c 

5 CAMP 



OFFICE (WINTER) 

CAMP (SUMMER) 

Ol 

DC Z 

Q 2i o 

ACTIVITIES ACCOMMODATION 

SEASON/FEES 

PINE VALLEY CAMP (1949) 







Mr. Robert Lazanik 

Ste. Agathe des Monts 

X 

X 

R 

Water Skiing 

120 boys 7-16 

June 25-Aug. 20 

5165 Sherbrooke St. W. 

J8C 3A1 




Canoeing 

120 girls 7-16 

$650.00/4 weeks 

Suite 316 

(819-326-2939) 




Arts & Crafts 


$1200.00/8 weeks 

Montreal, H4A 1T6 





All Land Sports 



(514-489-8722) 





I LJ aoI/ m/ QoR aaI 

■ 100 boys 8-16 - 

Aug. 4-Aug. 31 1 
$160.00/Week J 





I nocKcy ocnooi 

PRIPSTEIN'S CAMP 

Mr. Ron Bronerman 

St-Adolphe d'Howard 

X 


R 

Swimming 

75 boys 7-16 

June 28-Aug. 22 

6344 MacDonald Ave. 

(819-327-2260) 




Sailing 

75 girls 7-16 

$1,130.00/8 weeks 

Montreal 





Arts & Crafts 



(514-481-1875) 





Tennis 

Land sports 



QUEBEC LODGE CAMP (1943) 







Rev. Ronald Smith 

R.R. no. 3 

X 

X 

C 

Swimming 

85 girls 8-16 - 

June 27-July 10 

54 Cutling St. 

Ayers Cliff 




Canoeing 

85 Co-Ed - 

July 11-July 24 

Coaticook, Que. 

Stanstead Co. 




Sailing 

85 boys 8-16 - 

July 25-Aug. 7 

(819-849-2966) 

JOB ICO 
(819-842-2286) 




Crafts 

Archery 

Other possibilities; 
details on request 

Family Camps_ |" 

Aug. 8-Aug. 14 

July 11-July 24 
$110.00/period 

ROBINSON (1958) 

Mrs. Margaret Robert 

Chemin Guay 

X 


R 

Water & Land Sports 

75 boys 6-16 

June 29-Aug. 23 

6280 Northcrest Place 

St. Donat 




Tripping 

75 girls 6-16 

Period: 4 weeks 

Apt. 918 

JOT 2C0 




Tennis 


$525.00/4 weeks 

Montreal, H3S 2N1 

(819-424-2536) 




Canoeing 


$975.00/8 weeks 

(514-731-2478) 





Arts & Crafts 



SANS SOUCI RIDING CENTRE (1970) 







Kathy & Fred Kroos 

Ste. Clothilde 

X 

X 

C 

Riding Speciality 

20 boys 8-18 

May-June-July 

Anne & Wolfgang Schinke 

(Chateauguay Co.) 




Horsemanship 

45 girls 8-18 

Aug/Sept. 

Ste. Clothilde, JOL 1W0 

JOL 1W0 




Swimming 



(Chateauguay Co.) 
(514-826-3503/3208) 

(514-826-3503/3208) 




Nature lore 



SHAAR SHALOM SYNAGOGUE 







Mrs. Shirley Jackson 

Shaar Shalom Synagogue X 

c 

C 

Swimming 

40 boys 4-12 

June 30-July 27 

4790 Notre Dame 

4880 Notre Dame 




Sports 

90 girls 4-12 

July 29-Aug. 25 

Chomeday, Laval, Que. 

Chomedey, Laval, Que. 




Arts & Crafts 


$175.00/Month 

(514-681-9917) 

(514-688-8100) 




Nature lore 



TRAIL'S END (1949) 

Mr. Wilf Jackson 

Ste. Beatrix 

X 

X 

C 

Swimming 

172 boys 8-15 

July - August 

1857 de Maisonneuve 

Co. Joliette, Que. 




Sports 


Period: 16 days 

Montreal 

(514-883-6171) 




Canoeing 


Sliding Scale 

(514-937-5351) 





Outpost 

Arts & Crafts 



WA-THIK-ANE (1926) (Girl Guides of Canada) 







Mrs. Bishop 

R.R. no. 1 

— 

X 

C 

Swimming 

300 girls 10-17 

June 26-Aug. 21 

1939 Maisonneuve Blvd. 

Morin Heights, J0R 1H0 




Canoeing 

Variable 

W. Montreal, H3H 1K3 

(514-226-9926) 




Hiking 



(514-933-5839) 





Wilderness 

Guide Programme 



WILVAKEN INC. (1958) 
Dr. & Mrs. K.R. Willis 

R.R. no. 1 

X 

X 

C 

Swimming 

50 boys 8-16 

2 wks Aug. $230. 

R.R. no. 1 

Magog, J1X 3W2 




Canoeing 

50 girls 8-16 

4 wks $430. 

Magog, Que. 

(819-843-5353) 




Riding 


6 wks $600. 

J1X 3W2 





Sailing 


8 wks $775. 

(819-843-5353) 





Riflery 


$50.00/deposit 

WOODEN ACRES (Jewish 

Community Camps) 







Mr. Herb Finkelberg 

St. Adolphe d'Howard 

X 

X 

R 

Sports 

122 boys 9-16 

June to August 

5151 Ct. Ste. Catherine 

Argenteuil Co. 




Drama 

127 girls 9-16 

Two 4-week periods 

no. 203 

JOT 2B0 




Arts & Crafts 

Sliding Scale 

Montreal, H3W 1M6 

(819-327-2844) 




Photography 


(514-735-3669) 





Jewish culture 



YM-YWHA COUNTRY CAMP (1963) (Y Camping Services) 




Mr. Joe Friedman 

Huberdeau 

X 

X 

R 

Sports 

180 boys 814-16 

June 27-Aug. 22 

5500 Westbury Avenue 

Argenteuil Co. 




Tripping 

180 girls 814-16 

Two 4-week periods 

Montreal, H3W 2W8 

JOT 1G0 




Nature 

$475.00/month 

(514-737-6551 Loc. 33) 

(819-687-3271) 




Jewish culture 

Arts & Crafts 



YM-YWHA DAY CAMPS (1930) (Y Camping Services) 






M. Maurice Grzeda 

550 Westbury Avenue 

X 

— 

— 

Outdoor Games 

375 boys 4-13 

June 28-Aug. 20 

5500 Westbury Avenue 

Montreal, H3W 2W8 




Campcraft 

375 girls 4-13 

Two 4-week periods 

Montreal, H3W 2W8 

(514-737-6551) 




Cultural Activities 

4-9 years - 

$125.00/month 

(514-737-6551) 





Media 

Sports 

9-13 years - 

$140.00/month 


84 






QUEBEC (English section) 


OFFICE (WINTER) 


CAMP (SUMMER) 


li. 

< 

1— 

C/D 


< 

CL 


O 

LU ^ 

£ tr£o 

feagsi 

e?a: o-g S 

LU 3 0 ’«l r 
DC2 Q £ o 


5 CAMP 
ACTIVITIES 


ACCOMMODATION 


SEASON/FEES 


SPECIALIZED CAMPS 

To assist people who are looking for a specialized camp, we take pleasure in listing the following camps. 

In general, these camps are bilingual 

CAROWANIS (1958) 

(Quebec Camp for Diabetic Children Inc.) 

Mr. Robert Vallerand. P.O. Box 280 X X F 

Mrs. Norma Grant, Sec. Ste. Agathe 

4845 Sherbrooke St. W. J8C 3A3 

Montreal, H3Z 1G6 (819-326-2456) 

(514-932-4768) 

CENTRE DE VACANCES DE L'ASSOCIATION 
DE PARALYSIE CEREBRALE (1949) 

Mr. Jacques Corbeil 490 Lacolle XX C 

3015 Sherbrooke St. W. Cantic 

No-217 St. Jean Co. 

Montreal, H3Z 1A1 (514-246-3554) 

(514-937-9143) 

CENTRE DE PLAIN AIR LA CALECHE (1969) 

Mr. Rene Rousseau 125, Tour du Lac XX C 

125, Tour du Lac Ste. Agathe, Que. 

Ste. Agathe, Que. (819-326-3753) 

(819-326-3753) 

CENTRES MARRONNIERS INC. (1970) 


Mr. Robert Perreault 
5695 Ave. des Marronniers 
Montreal, HIT 2W3 
(514-255-4026) 


34 Rte du Vieux 
Moulin 
lie Perrot 
(514-453-4187) 


X - 


DOMAINE DES CIMES 

Mr. Leonce St-Pierre Cote St-Antoine 

Ste. Anne Hospital St. Paul Bay 

St. Paul Bay Charlevoix Co. 

Charlevoix Co. (418-435-2005) 

(418-435-2005) 

DOMAINE DES PRES (1973) 

Mr. Roger Couillard St-Aime du 

Mrs. Jaslow, Sec. Lac des lies 

3757, 2nd St. Labelle Co. 

Chomedey, Laval 
(514-688-2801) 

CAMP OF CRIPPLED CHILDREN (1938) 
(Quebec Society for Crippled Children) 


X - 


Mr. Yves Beauregard 
1455, Rochon St. 
Montreal, H4L 1W1 
(514-748-8816) 


St. Alphonse de 
Rodriguez 
Joliette Co. 
(514-883-9915) 


GATINEAU (1970) 
Mr. Michel Charbonneau 
Ste. Cecile de Masham 
Pontiac Co. 
(819-456-2002) 


Ste. Cecile de Masham 
Pontiac Co. 
(819-456-2002) 


MASSAWIPPI (1951) 

(Mackay Center for Deaf and Crippled Children) 

Mr. Carman Bradley Ayer's Cliff 

3500 Decarie Blvd. (819-838-4707) 

Montreal, H4A 3J5 
(514-482-0500) 


Swimming 

Hebertisme 

Artisanat 

Canoeing 

Tennis 

50 boys 8-15 

50 girls 8-15 

July 5-July 26 

July 26-August 16 
Sliding Scale 

Sports 

Trips 

Tripping 

Evenings 

Arts 

18 boys 18-40 

18 girls 18-40 

Period: 27 Days 
Sliding Scale 

Plus $5.00 Reg. Fee 


For the Children of the Institution only 

Socio-Cult. act. 30 boys 18+ 

Swimming act. 

Arts & Crafts 

Sports 

Outdoor Education 

(For the young adults of the centers) 

June 14-Aug. 28 
Sliding scale 


For the Children of the Ste. Anne Hospital 


(For the children of Laval city) 

Swimming 

Canoeing/Sailing 

Camping 

Archery 

Arts & Crafts 

80 boys 19 1 

80 girls 19 J 

20 boys 2-6 “1 

20 girls 2-6 J 

105 boys 13-18 “1 
105 girls 13-18 J 
125 boys 2-12 "1 

125 girls 2-12 J 

June 4-18 

June 25-July 2 

June 25-July 23 

July 27-Aug. 18 

Sliding scale plus 
$10.00 Reg. Fee 

Swimming 

Soft Ball 

Camping 

Crafts 

Hebertisme 

225 boys 8-30 

225 girls 8-30 

June 27-July 16 

July 18-Aug. 6 

Aug. 8-Aug. 27 

Sliding scale 

Hobbycraft 

Canoeing 

Archery 

Tripping 

Volleyball 

50 boys 7-17 

50 girls 7-17 

Period: 6 weeks 

July and August 

No Charge Students 
of Mackay. 

Others: $10.00/day 


85 







QUEBEC (English section) 


OFFICE (WINTER) 


CAMP (SUMMER) 


u_ 

< 


GO 


o 

< 

a. 


O 

LU 

CC 

LU 



(JfT 
LUD 
OCZ 


cEg 
P c — 
o.-Ss 

O ’<« r- 
Q l o 


5 CAMP 
ACTIVITIES 


ACCOMMODATION SEASON/FEES 


PAVILLON ROTARY (1963) 

Mr. Maurice Lefebvre 2434 Marie-Victorin (Reserved for the children from the Readaptation Center) 

265 St-Cyrille W. St-Nicolas 

Quebec (418-831-9913) 

(418-522-4241) 

TERRE DES JEUNESSTE. JULIENNE (1971) 


Mr. Justin Bournival 

2973 Rangdu Cordon 

X X 

c 

Camping 

35 boys 6+ 

June 27-July 15 

Mrs. Carmen S. Bournival 

Ste. Julienne, Que. 



Tripping 

35 girls 6+ 

July 18-Aug. 5 

1086 J.J. Joubert 

(514-831-2147) 



Swimming 


Aug. 8-Aug. 26 

Laval, Que. 




Riding 


$35.00/week 

(514-667-6595) 




Hobbycraft 


$5.00 Reg. Fee 

VILLA NOTRE-DAME DE FATIMA (1948) 






Mr. Abbe Paul Leboeuf 

R.R. no. 1 

X - 

c 

Crafts 

16 boys 5-8 *1 

Two 2-week periods 

Mr. Abbe Gerard Hebert 

Les Chenaux 



Swimming 

16 girls 5-15 J 


3747 St. Denis St. 

Vaudreuil, Que. 



Water Skiing 

32 girls 5-15 *"* 

Two 2-week periods 

Montreal, H2X 3L8 

J7V 5V5 



Bicycle 


$5.00 Reg. Fee 

(514-849-6109) 

(514-455-3838) 



Hebertisme 

(Reserved for deaf 

children) 

A.C.Q. 

MEMBRES COMMERCIAUX 

/ 

COMMERCIAL MEMBERS Q.C.A. 



CAMP SHOP INC. 

(Sea & Charles Grant) 514-737-0847 

4985 Queen Mary Rd., Montreal, H3W 1X4 
Articles de camp 
Camp Clothing 

CANVAS EQUIPMENT LIMITED/LIMITEE 

(N. Faubert) 514-849-6152 

239 St-Sacrement, Montreal, H2Y 1W9 
Tentes-accessoires et reparation 
Tests-accessories and repairs 

CNA/ASSURANCE 

(Jean-Pierre Baudet) 514-842-2121 

2001 Universite, Montreal, H3A 2A6 
Assurances pour etudiants et groupes 
Group and Student Insurance 

COLORAMIC LTEE/LTD. 

(F. Heffernan) 514-274-4309 

2398 boul. Rosemont, Montreal, H2G 1V1 
Fournitures art - bureau/articles sport 
Art & Office Supplies/Sporting Goods 

CORBEIL-HOOKE ARTS & CRAFTS LIMITED 

(Miss V. Bouchard) 514-866-7867 

1218 Drummond, Montreal, H3G 1V7 
Accessoires et materiel artistique 
Arts & Crafts Materials 

EMERGENCY FIRST AID SERVICE LTD. 

(S. Levin) 514-384-4500 

1180 0. Louvain, Montreal, H4N 1G5 
Materiel de premier soin, etc. 

First aid supplies to camps, etc. 

GENERAL FOODS LTEE/MAITRE 

(Pierre-Paul Dubuc) 

795 — 90e Avenue, Ville LaSalle 
Jus d'orange Tang, cafe, jello, etc. 

Tang Orange juice, coffee, jello, etc. 

GIBBONS FOODS LIMITED 

(R.A. Bedard) 514-626-5615 

4353 Cedar Drive, Pierrefonds, H9H 2K2 
Grande variete d'aliments 
Outstanding variety of camp foods 

S. GUMPERT CO. OF CANADA LTD. 

(E. Carlin) 514-731-5750 

31 Brock Ave., Toronto, M6K 2L1 
Produits alimentaires legers, etc. 

Light food products, etc. 

INDEPENDENT TOBACCO INC. 

(Gerry Sohmer) 514-637-3501 

180 - 12th Ave., Lachine, H8S 3H8 
Grossiste/Materiel artistique et friandises 
Wholesalers of Arts & Crafts and Candy 


KELLOGG-SALADA COMPANY LIMITED 

(A. Lupien) 514-735-1141 

5430 Cote de Liesse, Montreal, H4P 1A6 
Le meilleur dejeuner chaque matin 
The best to you each morning 

MILLER LABEL & TICKET CO. 

(William Miller) 514-861-1924 

809 William St. Room 402, Montreal, H3C 1N8 
Etiquettes imprimees et lavables $2.50/100 
Name tapes, printed, washable $2.50/100 

PREMIER MEAT PACKERS LTD. 

(Jeffrey Siegal) 514-384-5540 

8989 Park Ave., Montreal, H2N 1Y8 
Grossiste de viande/lnspection federate 
Wholesale Meat Packers/Federal supervision 

PROVIGO 

(Guy Brisebois) 514-663-0551 

2685 Boul. Industriel, Chomedey, H7S 2B9 
Epicerie/Grocery — Congele/Frozen 

PARAMOUNT CREST WEAR LTD. 

(Terry Farnsworth) 514-271-2577 

5700 Louis-Hebert, Montreal, H2G 2E9 
Ecussons, coupe-vent, T-Shirts 
Crests, Club Jackets, T-Shirts 

RAYMOND LIMITEE/LIMITED 

(M. Andre Auger) 514-729-6361 

7410 — 19e avenue, Montreal, H2A 2L8 
Equipement sportif lourd et leger 
Complete line of sport equipment 

ST-JEROME CREME RI E/DAIRY 

(Paul Daze) 514-432-9757 

621 St-Georges, St-Jerdme, Que. 

Assortiment complet de produits laitiers 
Complete line of milk products 

ST-LOUIS BEDDING COMPANY LIMITED 

(Edward Spiegel) 514-352-1230 

9850 Parkway Blvd., Montreal, HI J 1P6 
Lits camps/superposes/matelas/oreillers 
Camp beds/bunk/mattresses/pillows 

TANDY LEATHER COMPANY OF CANADA LIMITED 

(Allan Eyers) 705-728-2481 

1 John Street, Barrie, Ontario 
Accessoires d'artisanat 
Leather & craft supplies 

VIAU & GRISSOL 

(J. Marc Havard) 514-255-2811 

4945 est, Ontario, Montreal, HIV 1M1 
Biscuits/friandises/chocolats, etc. 

Biscuits/candies/chocolates, etc. 


SERVICE FOOD 

514-363-7777 


86 







fa/katchewan Camping A//ociation 


BOARD OF DIRECTORS 


"The voice of Saskatchewan Camping" 

P.O. Box 823 
Regina, Saskatchewan 


President: 

Marg Pezderic 

42, 1302 Windsor Street 

Saskatoon, S7K 0Z2 

Vice President: 

LaVerne Jantz 
Box 83, Drake 

Corresponding Secretary: 

Joy MacKenzie 

7, 419 Lome St. North, Regina 

Recording Secretary: 

Doris M. Grassie 

1534 Garnet Street, Regina, S4T 2Y7 

Treasurer 

Ben Pickford 

YMCA, 25, 22nd St. E., Saskatoon 

Past President 
Linda Palin 

Box 558, Lumby, B.C. 


Board Members: 

John Boutin 

Box 35, Carrot River 

Graham Boyd 
Prince Albert 

Noreen Burton 

9, 3026 Arlington Avenue 

Saskatoon S7J 2J9 

Doug Conway 

1860 Lome Street, Regina,-S4P 2L7 

Heather Graham 
924 1st Street East, 

Saskatoon, S7H 1T3 

Al Knox 

#2, 1132 14th Street, 

Saskatoon, S7H 0A3 

Jan Korven 

#2, 1301 Jubilee Drive, 

Swift Current 

THE SCA — WHAT IS IT? 


Board Members (cont'd) 

Don MacPherson 

Box 152, Morse, SOH 3C0 

Eileen Mayotte 
87 Coldwell Road, Regina 

Tom Spence 

1410 Kilburn Avenue, Saskatoon 

Adriana Van Duyvendyk 
1701 Central Avenue, 

Sutherland Sub, Saskatoon, S7N 2M5 


PAST PRESIDENTS 

Eileen Mayotte 
Jack MacKenzie 
Don Pringle 
Michael Pezderic 
Linda Palin 


The Saskatchewan Camping Association is a non profit organization made up of people interested in the promotion of 
camping in the province. 

The objectives are: 

1) to promote camping as an education character building and recreational experience 

2) to act as a co-ordinating body for camping throughout Saskatchewan 

3) to develop and encourage high standards in camping 

4) to study, interpret and spread knowledge of regulations or developments of concern to camping 


A PHILOSOPHY OF CAMP ACCREDITATION 


The Saskatchewan Camping Association is interested in the promotion of better camping for campers in this province. 

Camp Committees, directors and staff continually strive to better their camps, their program and their operation. Camps can 
be helped by being a member of the Saskatchewan Camping Association. 

Camp Accreditation is not an inspection, and the visitation does not grade or evaluate a camp. The purpose is that the Camp 
Committee and director can check his own operation, principles and procedures and decide how the camp can be improved. 
By having a SCA visitor go through each section of the Accreditation with someone from the camp or committee, camp 
practices will be clarified. 

Saskatchewan has many different kinds of camps and camp sites are different, and these differences must be maintained. 
Accreditation does not mean standardization. SCA must have Standards that are mandatory as these are legislation and there¬ 
fore law. On the other hand, desirable practices create levels in camping that each camp aims for whereby the desirable 
practices are maintained and undesirable practices in camping are discarded. 

INDEX OF CAMPS 


Arlington Beach Camp 

Can-Ta-Ka-Ye 

Capernaum 

Christopher Lake Baptist 
Bible Camp 
Cyprus Bible Camp 
Camp Easter Seal 
Camp Gilwell 
Glad Tidings Bible Camp 
John Bosco Camp 
Katepwa Baptist Kamp 


Kenosee Boys and Girls Camp 
Camp Kesuk 

Kiwanis Girl Guide Camp 
Camp Lemieux 
Lumsden Camp 
Luseland Bible Camp 
Camp McKay 
Madge Lake Bible Camp 
Manitou Lake Bible Camp 
Mennonite Youth Farm Bible 
Camp Monahan 


Camp Oskidee 
Ranger Lake Bible Camp 
Regina Conference Lutheran 
Bible Camp 
Camp Shagabec 
Stoney Lake Bible Camp 
Tapawingo 
Camp Ta-Wa-Si 
Thunderbird 
Torch Trail Bible Camp 
Camp Wakonda 
Camp Woodboia 


87 


MEMBER CAMPS 


KEY re: CAMP FACILITIES 

A. ENVIRONMENT FOR OUTDOOR EDUCATION 
PROGRAMS 

1 Lake 

2 River or Creek 

3 Not near Water 

B. TERRAIN INCLUDES 

1 Forest coniferous 

2 Forest deciduous 

3 Brush and shrub 

4 Fields 

5 Grasslands 

6 Gravel Pits 

7 Hills 

8 Mountains 

Waterfront: 

9 Beach 

10 Pool 

11 Public Beach 

12 Miles to nearest Provincial Park 

C. FEATURES NEAR CAMPSITE (i.e. less than 2 miles) 

1 Beach 

2 Ponds 

3 Marshes and Bogs 

4 Farms 

5 Trails 

6 Creeks 

7 Historical Sites 

8 Overnight Campsites 

9 Other interesting features 

D. SERVICES 

1 Method of transportation to site from nearest large 
centre 

2 Name centre 

3 Distance 

4 Roads (accessibility) 

a) summer 

b) winter 

5 Is camp winterized? 

a) all 

b) part 

6 Miles to nearest doctor 

7 Miles to nearest hospital 

8 Miles to nearest food supply centre 

9 Telephone on campsite 

10 Number 

E. FACILITIES AVAILABLE (Accommodation) 

1 Sleeping space for campers 

a) summer 

b) winter 

2 Sleeping space for staff 

a) summer 

b) winter 

3 Eating space 

4 Indoor program space 

5 Infirmary 

6 Dormitory or tents 

7 Beds provided (number) 

8 Mattresses provided 

9 Washroom facilities: 

a) co-ed 

b) boys 

c) girls 

10 Type 

11 List other facilities (craft shop, pool, etc.) 

F. EQUIPMENT AVAILABLE 

1 Patrol boat 

2 Canoes 

3 Lifejackets 

4 Archery 

5 Sail boats 

6 Other 

G. STAFF (could any of the following be provided?) 

1 Caretaker 

2 Kitchen staff 

3 Nurse 

4 Program staff 

H. RENTAL — Basic daily rental fee per person 

I. Contact person 

J. Position 

K. City Address 

L. City phone 


ARLINGTON 

Location: 

Used by: 
Address: 


BEACH CAMP 

Cymric, Sask. (on Last Mountain Lake) 
CSSM (rents camp from Free Methodists) 


Summer Winter 

Arlington Camp Bob Downey 

c/o CSSM, Cymric, Sask. Elstow, Sask. 

Phone: 484-4460 
Director or Ernie Dyck 

Committee 71 Osborne Crescent 

Chairman: Regina, Sask. 

Capacity: Campers 100; Staff 20 

Length of Rented from July 23 - August 12, 1973 

Camping Season: 

Camping Dates: July and August 

Objectives: A Christ-centered program, geared to contribute to 

the total development of the camper. 


CAN-TA-KA-YE 


Location: 

Acreage: 

Type of Camp: 
Used by: 
Sponsor or 
Owner: 

Director: 

Capacity: 


Birsay, Sask. (9 miles S.E.) 

40 (leased) Adjacent land available 

Resident lodge and tents — semi-wilderness 

Girl Guides of Saskatchewan 

Sask. Council Girl Guides of Canada 

3501 Dewdney Avenue, Regina, Sask. 

Phone: 527-4102 

Heather Graham 

924 — 1st Street E. Saskatoon 

Campers 100+; Staff 9 (paid) 

Volunteers: 1-8 campers 
1-5 brownies 


. July 1 - August 30 


Length of 
Camping Season:' 

Camping Dates: July and August (all girls) 

Rental: Available for rent in June or September. 


Objectives: To provide camping facilities to carry out the camp¬ 

ing activities of the organization which is an integral 
part of the Girl Guides' program. 

Facilities: 


A. 1 

B. 2, 3,4, 5, 7,9, 12 (25) 

C. 1,4, 5, 7, 8, 9 (Hitchcock Cabin, Pioneer Church on adjacent land) 

D. 1-(car or bus); 2-Saskatoon; 3-90; 4-a, b; 5-b; 6-15; 7-15; 8*9 miles 

E. 1a-(64) lodge, (100) tents; lb-64; 2a-12; 2b-12; 3-100; 4-100; 
5-separate bathroom; 6-both; 7, 8, 9a; 11-walk in fridge, staff room 
freezer, gas stove, hot & cold water, heated building, 3 outdoor 
cook shelters 

F. 1-6; 2-6; 3 

G. 1 

H. $3 

I. Mrs. R. Knowles 

J. Prov. Camp Commissioner 

K. 3044 25th Avenue, Regina 

L. 527-4102 


ACCREDITED MEMBER OF SCA 


CAPERNAUM (Moose Jaw Presbytery) 


Location: 

Acreage: 

Type of Camp: 
Sponsor or 
Owner: 
Address: 


Director or 
Com. Chairman: 
Capacity: 

Length of 
Camping Season 
Rental: 
Objectives: 


Buffalo Pound Lake 
250 (owned) 

Resident — tents 

Moose Jaw United Presbytery 

(Winter and Summer) 

Box 56, Moose Jaw, Sask. 

Phone: 693-1051 
J. Livingston 

206 Elsom Street E., Moose Jaw, Sask. 

Campers 100; Staff 14 

. June 1 - August 31 
Available for rent 

To provide an opportunity for Christian develop¬ 
ment through outdoor education. 


Facilities: 

A. 1 

B. 3, 4, 6, 7,9, 12(4) 

C. 1, 7 

D. 1-Car; 2-Moose Jaw; 3-36 miles; 4a-good; 4b-poor; 5b; 6-36; 7-36; 
8-36 

E. la-50; lb-20; 2a-16; 2b-8; 3-100; 4-100'x30'; 6-7 wall; 7-20; 8-50; 
9a; 11-sports 

F. 2-8,3-40,5-1 

G. 1,4 

I. W. Taylor 

J. Camp Board Director 

K. 1133 Chestnut Avenue, Moose Jaw 

L. 692-1088 



SASKATCHEWAN 


CHRISTOPHER LAKE BAPTIST BIBLE CAMP 

Location: 2.3 miles north of Highway 263, on Anglin Lake 

Road, on Lake Christopher 
Acreage: 24 acres, owned 

Type of Camp: Resident — cabins 

Used by: Affiliated churches of the Baptist Union of Western 

Canada and renters 

Sponsor or Baptist Union of Western Canada 

Owner: 

Director or Rev. S.H. Cassells 

Com. Chairman: Box 264, Asquith, Sask. 

Capacity: Campers 60; Staff 20 

Season May 24 ' Se P tember 1 

Objectives: To provide a Christian residential camping experi¬ 

ence and a base for wilderness camping. 

Facilities: 

A. 1 

B. 1, 2,9, 12 (2.3 miles) 

C. 1, 3, 5, 6, 8, 9 Beaver lodge 

D. l-(car); 2-Prince Albert; 3-30 miles; 4-a; 6-(30); 7-(30); 8-(2) 

E. la-(60); 2a-(20); 3-(80); 4-(1200 sw. ft.); 5; 6-(5); 7-(80); 8-(80); 
9a* 11-dock 

F. 1-(1); 2-(5); 3-(20); 4-(3 sets); 6-(3 paddle boats, 4 paddle boards, 
1 fishing boat). 

H. $1 per camper day — $40 minimum 

I. Rev. S.H. Cassells 

J. Camp Board Chairman 

K. Box 264, Asquith, Sask. 

L. 329-4316 


CYPRUS BIBLE CAMP 


Cyprus Park, Sask. 
Approximately 2 acres 
Resident — cabins 
Children and Adults 


Location: 

Acreage: 

Type of Camp: 

Used by: 

Sponsor or 
Owner: 

Address: 

Director or 
Com. Chairman 
Capacity: 

Length of 
Camping Season: 

Camping Dates: July and August 


Canadian Sunday School Missions 

Caronport, Sask. 

Elmer Ebel (chairman) 

23 Valley View Drive, Medicine Hat, Alta. 
Campers 60; Staff 10 

.6 weeks 


Rental: 
Objectives: 


B. 

C. 

D. 


Available for Rent. 

To give children a better insight of God's great uni¬ 
verse and God's truth taught in Scripture; also 
training in various skills and camping; canoeing, 
archery, craft, sports, swim, cooking, nature trails. 

Facilities: 

A. 3 

1,2, 3, 5, 6, 9, 10, 12 (within park boundary) 

1,2, 3, 6, 7,8, 9 

l-(car); 2-(Maple Creek); 3-( 18 miles); 4a; 6-(18 miles); 8-(Maple 
C reek) 

E. 1 a-(60); 2a-(10); 3-(70); 4; 5; 6-(dorms); 7; 8; 11-(pool in park) 

F. 2-(2); 3-(6) 

H. $35/day 

I. E. Ebel, Chairman, OR Miss Marh Aslin, Secretary, 

23 Valley View Drive Box 1266, Shaunavon, Sask. 

Medicine Hat, Alta. Phone: 297-2849 


CAMP EASTER SEAL 

Location: Watrous, Sask. (Manitou Beach) 

Acreage: Leased + 20 acres adjacent land 

Type of Camp: Resident — cabins 

Used by: Physically and mentally handicapped adults and 

children 

Sponsor: Saskatchewan Council for Crippled Children and 

Adults 

Address: Summer 

Watrous, Sask. (R.R.1) 

Box 18 

Phone: 946-3373 
Larry Hackle 

1410 Kilburn Ave., Saskatoon 
Campers 130; Staff 70 


Winter 

1410 Kilburn Avenue 
Saskatoon, Sask. 
Phone: 653-1694 


Director: 

Capacity: 
Length of 
Camping Season 
Camping Dates: 
Rental: 
Objectives: 


3 months 

July and August 
Available for Rent 
Summer recreational program 
adults, teens and children. 


for handicapped 


Facilities: 

A. 1 

B. 3,4, 5,7,9, 10, 11, 12-(40) 

C. 1,3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9-(salt water) 

D. 1-Bunny Bus (CNR); 2-(Saskatoon); 3-(70 miles); 4a; 4b; 5b; 

6 (3); 7 (3); 8-(3); 9; 10-046-3373) (946-3374) 4 

E. 1a-(100); 2a-(75); 3-(200); 5; 6-(cabins); 7; 8; 9a; 11-(craft shop, 
pool, riding, sports, waterfront, rustic camps) 

F. 1,2, 3, 4, 6-(horses, social recreation, photography) 

G. 1,2, 4, 3 

H. To be arranged 
J. Camp Director 

ACCREDITED MEMBER OF SCA 


CAMP GILWELL 


Location: 

Area: 

Type: 


Sponsored by: 
Address: 

Director or 
Com. Chairman: 
Capacity: 

Camp for: 

Dates Open: 
Fees: 

Ren tal: 


Objectives: 


North shore Mission Lake, two miles west of Lebret 
Approximately 30-40 acres 

Residence — tent. One main lodge for dining and 
first aid rooms and separate residence for camp 
warden. Tent site areas for sleeping. 

Boy Scouts of Canada, Regina Region 
Winter and Summer 
1530 Broadway Avenue, Regina 
S.R. Breen (Executive Director) 

1530 Broadway Avenue, Regina, Sask. 

40 campers plus leaders 

Cubs, Scouts. Registered groups in Saskatchewan 

with Boy Scouts of Canada 

May, June, July, August 

50d per person per day (night) 

Available for rent to Scout groups. No decision has 
yet been entertained for general rental (out of 
season) to non-member groups. 

As per our National Handbook, Boy Scouts of 
Canada. 


GLAD TIDINGS BIBLE CAMP 


Location: 

Acreage: 

Type of Camp: 
Used by: 
Sponsor or 
Owner: 
Address: 


Director or 
Com. Chairman: 
Capacity: 
Length of 
Camping Season 
Camping Dates: 
Rental: 

Objectives: 


8 miles north of Mazenod, Sask. 

Owned 

Resident — cabins 
Adults and children 

Canadian Sunday School Missions 

Summer and winter 
Caronport, Sask. 

Phone: 756-2300 
Ron Silvester 
Ernfold, Sask. 

Campers 50; Staff 10 

2 months 
July 

May be available for rent. Rates are presently being 
discussed; no final decision as yet. 

Spiritually speaking — to make Christ known to 
every camper and promote Christian growth. 
Physically speaking — to provide good wholesome 
activity: to teach togetherness and respect for 
others. 


Facilities: 

A. 1 (man made dam) 

B. 1,2, 3, 4, 5, 9, 10, 11, 12-(80) 

C. 3, 4,5,6 

D. 4a, 4b, 6-(25 miles), 7-(Gravelbourg), 8-(Mossbank) 

E. 1a-(50); 2a-(10); 3; 4; 6-(3 dorms - 6 cabins); 7; 8; 11-(pool, ball 
diamond, Volleyball) 

F. 2-(2); 3; 4-(5 bows); 6-(horse shoe, volleyball, tether ball 

H. Presently being discussed 

I. Ron Silvester 

J. Chairman 

K. Ernfold, Sask. 

L. 629-3919 


JOHN BOSCO CAMP 


Location: 
Area: 
Type: 
Used by: 
Sponsor: 


Director: 

Capacity: 


Z N Lake, Hanson Lake Road Mile 40 
28 acres leased, adjacent land available 
Tents, wilderness 
9 years and up 

Summer Winter 

St. John Bosco Camp Ltd. Box 36, Arborfield, 
Box 217, Smeaton, Sask. Saskatchewan 
Radio XOZ 986 Phone: 769-8691 

John Boutin 

Box 36, Carrot River, Sask. 

Campers 150; Staff 50 


89 







SASKATCHEWAN 


L-Gi/y ui u i — 

Camping Season: ^ months 
A vail able for ren t: N o 
Available for hire: Yes 
Facilities: 

A. 1 

B. 1, 2, 3, 4, 12-(in Nipawin Prov. Park) 

C. 1,2, 3, 5, 6, 7-(Shannon Lake and Calder), 8, 9-(available virgin 
land) (esker) 

D. l-(car); 2-(Smeaton); 3-(40); 4a; 4b; 6-(80); 7-(80); 8-180); 9; 

10-(radio XOZ 986) 

E. 1 a-( 150); 2a-(34); 3-(200); 4-(200); 5; 6-(tents); 7-(34); 8-(34); 
9a; 11-(Nature lore shelter, chapel, fire arm bldg., rec. hall, power 
plant) 

F. 1 -(1); 2-(10); 3-(27); 4; 6-(sports, outtrip) 

G. 1, 2,3,4 

I. John Boutin 

J. Box 36, Carrot River 

K. 768-2477 

ACCREDITED MEMBER OF SCA 


KATEPWA BAPTIST KAMP 

Location: VA miles S.E. of Lebret 

Acreage: 96 owned, adjacent land available for camp use. 

Type of Camp: Day; Resident — cabins. Lodge facility 
Used by: Church and school groups, scouts, cadets. Outdoor 

education year round. 

Sponsor or Baptist Union of Western Canada 
Owner: 4404, 16 St. S.W., Calgary, Alta. 

Phone: 243-6880 
Director or Norman Sowden 
Com. Chairman: Brownlee 
Capacity: Campers 86; Staff 56 

Camping Dates: All year 

Rental: Available for Rent. Inquire re rates. 

Objectives: Bring into focus God's relationship and claims 

through Jesus Christ on each individual's total 
make up; physical, emotional, mental and spiritual. 

Facilities: 

A. 1 

B. 2, 3,4,5, 6, 7,9, 12 (5) 

C. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9-(lndian Head Tree Farm) 

D. l-(bus); 2-(Fort Qu'Appelle); 3-(5 miles); 4a; 4b; 5b; 6-(5 miles); 
7-(5 miles); 8-0%) 

E. 1 a-(86); 1b-(50); 2a-(56); 2b-(2); 3-(summer 120, winter 60); 4; 
6-(dorm); 7; 8; 9-(lodge — indoor plumbing and showers); 
10-(332-4727); 11 -(Craft shop and trailer spots) 

F. 1; 2-(5); 3; 4; 6-(mini golf course, outdoor sports, orienteering 
course) 

G. 1 

H. $18 + 65d per person per day 

I. Bob Bruce 

J. Camp Custodian 

K. 1278 Robinson Street, Regina, Sask. 

L. 527-4950 


KENOSEE BOYS AND GIRLS CAMP 


Location: 

Acreage: 

Type of Camp: 
Used by: 
Sponsor: 
Owner: 
Address: 


Director: 
Capacity: 
Length of 
Camping Season 
Camping Dates: 
Rental: 

Rates: 

Objectives: 


Moose Mountain Provincial Park 

3 acres — leased 

Resident — cabins; semi-wilderness 
Boys and girls separately; also Family Groups 
Knights of Columbus 
Archdiocese of Regina 
Summer 
Carlyle, Sask. 

Phone: 453-6051 (chalet) 

Rev. David Banga 
Campers 72; Staff 11 

4 weeks regular 
:5 weeks family 

July and August 

Partially available for rent 

Negotiable, but average $50/week 

Life in the wilderness in order to return to nature's 

peace and God's creation. 


Winter 

Rev. David Banga 
109, 12th Ave., Estevan 


Facilities: 

A. 1 

B. 2, 3,9, 12-(Prov. Park) 

C. 2, 3, 5, 7, 8-(Riding academy vicinity, old saw mill 'A mile away) 

D. 1 -(car); 2-(Carlyle); 3-( 15 miles); 4d; 6-( 15 miles); 7-(26 miles); 
8 -( 12 ); 

E. 1-(72);2-(8 rooms); 3-(40'x80');4-(40'x80'); 5-0 bed);6-(12 
bunks per cabin); 7-(72); 8-(72); 9b; 9c; 10-(pit); 11 

F. 3,4,6 

G. 1 

H. 75d 


I. Reverend Louis Kubash 

J. Director 

K. Box 9, Moosomin, Sask. 

L. 435-2993 


CAMP KESUK 

Location: 

Acreage: 

Type of Camp: 
Used by: 
Sponsor or 
Owner: 

Address: 


Director or 
Com. Chairman: 
Capacity: 
Length of 
Camping Season 
Rental: 

Rates: 


Beaver Creek (12 miles south of Saskatoon) 

18.9 leased, adjacent land available 
Day 

Girls and boys, 7-13 years 
YWCA, Saskatoon 

Winter and summer 
YWCA, Saskatoon, Sask. 

Phone: 244-0944 
Ardice Walter 
YWCA, Saskatoon, Sask. 

Campers 80; Staff 20 

2 months 
Available for rent. 

$10 overnight, $5 + 10(^ per person on daily basis 


Facilities: 

A. 2 

B. 2, 3, 4,5,6, 7, 12-(20) 

C. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9-(slumping, beaver dams, sand bars) 

D. 1-(bus, car); 2-(Saskatoon); 3-02 miles); 4a; 4b-(within 'A mile); 
5a; 6-02 miles); 7-02 miles); 8-02 miles) 

E. 1a-(80); 1 b-(16); 2a-(20); 3-(20); 4-(40); 6-(tents); 9a; ll-(craft) 

F. 6-(sports, games, fridge, stove, YWCA pool and gym) 

G. 4 

H. contact YWCA, Saskatoon 

I. Heather Graham 

J. Camp Director 

K. YWCA Saskatoon 

L. 244-0944 

ACCREDITED MEMBER OF SCA 


KIWANIS GIRL GUIDE CAMP 


Location: 

Acreage: 

Type of Camp: 
Used by: 
Sponsor or 
Owner: 

Director or 
Com. Chairman: 
Capacity: 

Length of 
Camping Season: 
Rental: 

Rates: 


Glen Harbour, Last Mountain Lake 
Leased, adjacent land available for use 
Resident — cabins and tents 
Regina Area Girl Guides 

Kiwanis Club of Regina 
Mrs. E. Asquith 

1530 Broadway Avenue, Regina 
Campers 45: Staff 5 

May to September 

Available for rent. 

Caution fee: $50/week or more 
Weekly: $10/camper or $1.50 per day — outsiders 
Guide Family: $2/camper weekly or 20<//day or 
70d/weekend 


Facilities: 

A. 1-(Last Mountain) 

B. 3, 5, 7, 9, 12-(approx. 30) 

C. 1,4,5 

D. l-(own); 2-(Regina); 3-(48 miles); 4a; 6-00 miles); 7-(Regina); 
8-(Silton); 9; 10 (527-5718) 

E. 1a-(45); 2a-(5); 3-(50); 5; 6-(tents); 7; 8; 11-(outside dining shel¬ 
ter, tables, benches, barbeques) 

F. 6-(dock) 

H. $1.50 per person 

I. Mrs. E. Asquith 

J. Area Commissioner, Regina Area Girl Guides 

K. 1530 Broadway Avenue, Regina 

L. 523-8057 


CAMP LEMIEUX 


Location: 

Acreage: 

Type of Camp: 
Used by: 
Owner: 
Sponsor: 


Director: 

Capacity: 

Length of 
Camping Season: 
Rental: 
Objectives: 


Lac Pelletier, 30 miles S.W. of Swift Current 
22 acres, leased and adjacent land available 
Resident — cabins, semi wilderness 
Roman Catholic children 

Roman Catholic Episcopal Corp. of Gravelbourg 
Knights of Columbus 
41 - 2nd Ave. N.E. 

Swift Current 

Raymond Carignan 

Box 540, Gravelbourg, Sask. 

Campers 70; Staff 20 

5 weeks 

Available for rent. $2/person/week — minimum $20 
Initiate spiritual activity through camp activities 
and love for nature. 


90 






SASKATCHEWAN 


Facilities: 

A. 1 

B. 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 9, 12-(60) 

C. 1,3, 4, 7-(in regional park across lake), 8, 9-(table land) 

D. l-(car); 2-(Swift Current); 3 (30); 4a; 6-(30); 7-(30); 8-(30) 

E. 1a-(70); 2a-(20); 3-(80); 4; 5; 7; 8; 9a; 11-(chapel, craft) 

F. 1 -(2); 2-(4); 3-(20); 4; 5-(1); 6-(sports equipment, diving raft, 
trailer) 

G. 1,4 

I. Rev. Raymond Carignan 

J. Director 

K. Box 540, Gravelbourg, Sask. 

L. 648-2563 


LUMSDEN CAMP 

Location: Lumsden Beach 


Acreage: 

Type of Camp: 
Sponsor or 
Owner: 
Address: 
Phone: 
Director or 


160 — owned 
Resident — cabins 


Regina Presbytery Camp Board, United Church 

Carmichael U. Church, 15th Ave., Regina 
522-3980 
Rev. Jack Oglesvy 
Com. Chairman: 2365 Toronto Street, Regina 
Capacity: Campers 100; Staff 20 

cTmp^gSeason:^ ' September 

Camping Dates: July 

Rental: Available for rent; 


D. 1-(bus from Regina); 2-(Whitewood or Esterhazy); 3-(15 miles); 
4a; 6-05); 7-05); 8-05) 

E. 1 a - (6 0); 2a-(10); 3(75); 4-(large rec. hall); 6(8 cabins); 7; 8; 
9-(outdoors) 

G. 1, 2-(perhaps); 4-(possibly) 

H. Negotiable 

I. Mrs. Cathy Cox 

J. Treasurer 

K. Grenfell, Sask. 

L. 697-2283 


MADGE LAKE BIBLE CAMP 


Location: 

Acreage: 

Type of Camp: 
Used by: 
Sponsor or 
Owner: 
Address: 

Chairman: 


Capacity: 

Length of 
Camping Season: 
Camping Dates: July 
Objectives: 


Madge Lake Provincial Park 

4 (leased), adjacent land available for camp use. 

Resident — cabins 

Children and Youth 7-19 years 

Canadian Sunday School Missions 

Box 981, Swan River, Manitoba 
Phone: 204-734-2305 
Mr. Steve Maksymchuk 
Box 981, Swan River, Manitoba 
Campers 60; Staff 15 

3 weeks 


To introduce the camper to God as the all-important 
foundation for life; to promote mental, physical, 
social and spiritual growth; to develop leadership 
through camping. 


Facilities: 

A. 1 

B. 3,4,5, 7,9, 10 

C. 1,2, 3, 4, 5 

D. l-(car); 2-(Regina); 3-(45 miles); 4a; 4b; 5b-(furnace in dining 
hall); 6-(45 miles); 7-(45 miles); 8-(45 miles); 9 

E. 1a-(100); 2a-(20); 3 (120); 4 (120); 5; 6-(cabins); 7; 8; 9a; 

11-(pool, rec. hall) 

G. 1 

H. $25/day, $60/weekend plus 75<Z/person 

I. Mrs. D.J. Macintosh 

J. Registrar 

K. 50 Ellison Crescent, Regina 

L. 543-6701 


LUSELAND BIBLE CAMP 

Location: 7 miles N.W. of Luseland 

40 — owned 
Resident — cabins 
Children 7-19 years 

Canadian Sunday School Missions 

Mr. Dan Meier 
Luseland, Sask. 

Phone: 359-4242 
Mr. Dan Meier, (director) 
Luseland, Sask. 

Campers 60; Staff 15 


Acreage: 

Type of Camp: 
Used by: 
Sponsor or 
Owner: 
Address: 


Director or 

Com. Chairman: 

Capacity: 

Length of 0 . 

Camping Season: wee s 

Camping Dates: July 

Objectives: To introduce the camper to God as the all-important 

foundation for life; to promote physical, mental, 
social and spiritual growth to develop leadership 
through camping. 


CAMP MACKAY 


Location: 

Acreage: 

Type of Camp: 
Sponsor or 
Owner: 

Address: 
Director or 
Com. Chairman: 
Capacity: 
Rental: 
Objectives: 


East end of Round Lake in the Qu'Appelle Valley 
15.23 — owned 
Resident — cabins 
United Church of Canada, 

Qu'Appelle & Yorkton Presbyteries 
c/o Mrs. Cathy Cox, Grenfell, Sask. 

Rev. Don Nash 
Box 500, Balcarres 
Campers 60; Staff 10 
Available for Rent. 

To provide experiences in Christian living through 
adventure, challenge, contact with persons having 
something to offer young people, and group living. 


Facilities: 

A. 1-(Round Lake) 

B. 1,2,4, 5,7,9, 12-(50) 

C. 1,4, 6, 7-(original cemetery for MacKay Mission); 9-(nestled in 
Qu'Appelle Valley, hills good for climbing, etc.) 


MANITOU LAKE BIBLE CAMP 


Location: 

Area: 

Type: 

Sponsored by: 
Address: 


Capacity: 
Camp for: 
Fees: 

Objectives: 


Manitou Lake, Saskatchewan 

10 acres 

Residence 

Canadian Sunday School Mission 
Winter and Summer 
Mr. A.H. Walde 
Neilburg, Sask. 

120 campers 

Children and youth, 7-18 years 
Youth $10.50; Children $6.50 
To introduce the camper to God as the all-important 
foundation for life; to promote physical, mental, 
social and spiritual growth; to develop leadership 
through camping, for the church, school and com¬ 
munity. 


MENNONITE 

Location: 

Acreage: 

Type of Camp: 
Used by: 
Address: 

Phone: 

Director or 
Com. Chairman: 
Capacity: 
Length of 
Camping Season 
Rental: 

Objectives: 


YOUTH FARM BIBLE CAMP 

Rosthern, Saskatchewan 

600 — owned; adjacent land available for camp use 
Resident — cabins. Day 

Gen. Conference of Mennonites, Saskatchewan 

Rosthern, Box 370 

232-4861 or 232-4849 

Henry W. Friesen 

Box 370, Rosthern, Sask. 

Campers 70; Staff 15 

. 3 weeks 

Available for rent. So far the camp has not been 
rented out. 

Bring Christ to the campers; Christian nurture. 


Facilities: 

A. 1-(6 miles S.E. of camp) 

B. 4,5,6 

C. 4, 7-(Batoche, Fort Carlton) 

D. l-(car); 2-(Rosthern 31 miles); 4a; 4b; 5a; 6 (1); 7-(1); 8 (1); 9; 
10-(232-4861) 

E. la, 1b, 2a, 2b, 3, 4, 9a, 11 - (craft shop) 

F. 2,3,4 

I. Henry Friesen 

J. Director 

K. Box 370, Rosthern, Sask. 

L. 232-4861 or 232-4849 


CAMP MONAHAN 


Location: 

Acreage: 

Type of Camp: 
For use by: 
Sponsor or 
Owner: 
Address: 


Director or 
Com. Chairman: 


Lebret, Saskatchewan 
50, owned 

Resident — cabins and tents; semi-wilderness 
Anyone interested 

Archiposcopal Corp. of Regina 

Summer Winter 

Lebret, Sask. 262 Cornwall St. 

Regina 

Rev. Hegden 

262 Cornwall Street, Regina 


91 



SASKATCHEWAN 


Capacity: Campers 160; Staff 30 

'campinjseason:^ 1 ' Au 9 ust 30 
Camp Dates: July and August 

Rental: Available for rent. May, June, September, October. 

Objectives: A total experience in Christian living. 

Facilities: 

A. 1 

B. 1,2, 3, 4, 5,6, 7,9, 10, 12-(5) 

C. 1,2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9-(fishery) 

D. l-(car); 2-(Fort Qu'Appelle); 3-(7); 4a; 4b; 5b; 6-(7); 7-(7); 8-(4) 

E. 1 a-( 160); 1b-(70); 2a-(30); 2b-(30); 3-(200); 4-(200); 5; 6-(tents, 
cabins); 7; 8; 9a; 11-(canteen, pool, chapel, recreation hall) 

F. 1; 2-(18); 3; 6-(4 rowboats) 

G. 1 

H. $2 per day per person 

I. Mr. Andy Ortman 

J. Committee Member 

K. 403 — 18th Avenue, Regina 

L. 523-9128 

CAMPOSKIDEE 

Location: Meadow Lake Provincial Park 

Type of Camp: Resident 

Used by: Boys and girls 8-18 and Families 

Sponsor or Jeannette Lake Camping Association 

Owner: Box 902, Saskatoon 

Phone: 382-5559 
Director or H.J. Block 

Com. Chairman: 1221 Avenue J, North, Saskatoon 
Phone: 382-5559 
Capacity: 32 in camp 

Length of . . 

Camping Season: uy 
Camping Dates: July (co-ed) 

Rental: Available for rent 

Objectives: To serve young people and to introduce them to 

Jesus Christ and give them a real camp experience 
based on outdoor crafts and teaching skills. 

To make facilities available to groups in the 
province. 

Facilities: 

A. 1 

B. 1,2, 7,9, 12 

C. 1,5, 6,9 

D. 1-(private vehicle); 2-(Meadow Lake); 3-(41 miles); 4a-(fair); 
4b-(good, except last half mile); 5b-(part); 6-(41 miles); 

7- (41 miles); 8-(20 miles); 9-(no) 

E. 1a-(28); 2a-(10-12); 3 (100); 4-(50); 5-(no); 6-(cabins); 7-(40); 

8- (yes); 9-(co-ed); 10-(outdoor and flush); 11 -(rifIe and archery 
range) 

F. 6 canoes; 3-08 life jackets); 4-(yes); 5-(2 sailboats); 6-03 target 
rifles) 

G. None 

H. Rental $1.75/camper/day with minimum of $50/day 

I. See above 

J. H.A. Block 

K. See above 

L. See above 


RANGER LAKE BIBLE CAMP 


Location: 

Area: 

Type: 

For use by: 
Sponsor or 
Owner: 
Address: 

Director: 

Capacity: 

Rental: 

Objectives: 


Facilities: 

A. 1 

B. 1,2,3, 4,5,6, 7, 10, 12-(40) 

C. 2, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9-(in centre of 15,000 acre pasture) 

D. l-(car); 2-(Biggar); 3 (28); 4a-(good); 4b-(fair); 5b; 6-(28); 7-(28); 
8-(28); 9; 10-037-3560) 

E. 1 a-( 120); 1b-(72); 2a-(25); 2b-( 15); 4; 5; 6-(winterized cabins); 
7; 8; 9a; 11-(pool, outposts of fort and covered wagons, craft shop) 

F. 2-(7); 3-(20); 4; 6-(approx. 40 ponies, swimming pool, riflery and 
outtripping equipment) 


28 miles N.E. of Biggar 

90, leased, adjacent land available for camp use. 
(Endless) 

Resident — cabins — semi-wilderness 
Can. Sunday School Missions and rentals 

Ranger Lake Camp Board 

Summer and Winter 
Biggar, Sask. 

LaVerne Jantz, Drake, Sask. 

Campers 120 (s) Staff 25 (s) 

72 (w) 15 (w) 

Available for rent. 

To have a healthy camping program in the natural 
environment where campers can get to know Jesus 
Christ on a personal basis. 


G. 1,2 

H. Write for current information 

I. Ed Rempel 

J. Camp Manager 

K. Biggar, Saskatchewan 

L. 937-2560 


REGINA CONFERENCE LUTHERAN BIBLE CAMP 


Location: 
Acreage: 
For use by: 

Sponsor or 

Owner: 

Address: 


Committee 

Chairman: 

Capacity: 

Length of 
Camping Season: 
Rental: 
Objectives: 


8 miles west of Midale 
8 acres, owned 

Lutheran church groups or Lutheran sponsored 
Scouts, Guides, etc. 

Regina Conference Lutheran Bible Camp 

Association 

Summer and Winter 

Box 278, Midale, Sask. 

Camp Phone: 458-2616 
Manager's Phone: 458-2227 

Rev. Donald Rasmussen Rev. Robert Rademacher 

Zion Lutheran Box 278 

Weyburn, Sask. Midale, Sask. 

Campers 100; Staff 20 

Month of July. (Open in last half of June and 
August for miscellaneous use of camp.) 

Not available for rent. 

To provide the Regina Conference of the ELCC 
Bible Camping as an organized, Christ-centred 
experience which implements the ministry of the 
church by offering opportunities for growth, under 
trained leadership, through a program of activities 
related to an outdoor environment. 


CAMP SHAGABEC 


Location: 

Acreage: 

Type of Camp: 
For use by: 
Sponsor or 
Owner: 
Address: 


Cypress Hills Prov. Park, south of Maple Creek 
10, leased, adjacent land available for camp use. 
Resident — cabins; semi-wilderness 
All ages 

United Church of Canada 

Cypress Hills Presbytery 

Summer Winter 

c/o Camp Shagabec Don MacPherson 

Cypress Hills Prov. Park Box 152, Morse, Sask. 

Phone: 629-3270 


Director or 
Com. Chairman: 
Capacity: 

Length of 
Camping Season: 
Rental: 
Objectives: 


Don MacPherson (address as above) 

Campers 72; Staff 15 
4 months 

Available for rent; Rates negotiable. 

To enrich the lives of children and adults through 
providing opportunities for adventure group living, 
etc., in a Christian setting. 


Facilities: 

A. 1 (unique geological and botanical characteristics) 

B. 1,2, 3, 4, 5,6, 7,8,9, 10, 11, 12-(inpark) 

C. 1,2, 3, 4, 5,6, 7-(FortWalsh),8 

D. l-(car); 2-(Maple Creek); 3-(20); 4a; 4b; 5b; 6-(20); 7-(20); 8-(20) 

E. 1a-(72); 2a-(15); 3; 4; 5; 6-(tents and cabins); 7; 8; 9a; 11-(Craft 
hall, pool, riding) 

F. 4, 6-(camp bus) 

G. 1 

H. $1 - $2 per camper per day 

I. Mrs. Rosemarie O'Handley 

J. Committee 

K. 478 Central Ave. N., Swift Current 

L. 773-4449 


STONEY LAKE BIBLE CAMP 


Location: 

Acreage: 

Type of Camp: 
For use by: 
Sponsor or 
Owner: 

Address: 

Director or 
Com. Chairman: 
Capacity: 
Length of 
Camping Season 
Rental: 
Objectives: 


Kipabiskau Lake 
Owned 

Day; Resident — cabins. Semi-wilderness 
Bible Camp 

Owner 

Ellsworth Johnson, Secretary 

872-4461 

Harvey Jackson 

Lac Vert, Sask. 

Campers 60; Staff 20 

.6 weeks 

Not available for rent. 

Reaching children for Jesus Christ and Christian 
Growth. 


92 





SASKATCHEWAN 


TAPAWINGO 


Location: 

Acreage: 

Type of Camp: 
Sponsor or 
Owner: 
Address: 


Candle Lake, Sask. 

22.5 — leased 

Resident - Cabins; semi-wilderness 


United Church of Canada, 
Prince Albert, Sask. 
Summer 
Box 13 

Candle Lake, Sask. 


Winter 

Rev. W. Boyd 
2640 3rd Avenue East, 
Prince Albert, Sask. 


Director or Mrs. Earla Levering 

Com. Chairman: Melfort 
Capacity: Campers 56; Staff 20 

Length of May 15 - September 15 

Camping Season: 

Rental: Available for Rent. 

Rates: Variable 

Objectives: To provide Christian camping experiences and 

opportunities to people of all ages. 


Facilities: 


A. la 

B. 1,2,3, 12-(50) 

C 1 3 5 6 8 

D. Vicar); 2-lPrince Albert); 3-150); 4a; 4b; 5b; 6-150); 7-150); 8-12) 

E. 1a-(56); 2a-(20); 3-180); 4-170); 5; 6 -(cabins); 7; 8 ; 9a; 11-(good 
beach, craft cabin) 

F. 1; 2-(3); 3-(21); 6-(2 row boats, sports equipment) 

G. 1,2,4 

H. $4 per day, all inclusive 

I. Mrs. E.M. Land 

J. Treasurer 

K. Box 713, Shellbrook, Sask. 

L. 747-2236 

ACCREDITED MEMBER OF SCA 


CAMP TA-WA 

Location: 

Acreage: 

Type of Camp: 
For use by: 
Sponsor or 
Owner: 

Address: 


Director: 

Chairman: 

Capacity: 

Length of 
Camping Season. 
Rental: 

Rates: 

Objectives: 


Facilities: 


-SI 

Fort Qu'Appelle, Sask. (Echo Lake) 
76 — owned 
Resident — cabins 
Boys and girls, ages 6-14 

Regina YMCA 


Winter 

YMCA, 13th & McIntyre 
St., Regina, Sask. 

Phone: 527-6661 


Summer 
Fort Qu'Appelle, 

Sask. 

Phone: 332-4317 
Mat Senz, YMCA, Regina, Sask. 

Harold Morris, YMCA, Regina, Sask. 

Campers 120; Staff 45 

2 months 

Available for rent. 

$75 per day 

Fun and adventure; experience in democratic living; 
social adjustment; development of skills and inter¬ 
ests; health and safety; habit formation; develop¬ 
ment of leadership; appreciation of the natural world. 


A. 1 

B. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 , 7,9, 10, 12 (3) 

C. 1 , 3, 4, 5, 9-(heated pool) 

D. l-(bus); 2-(Regina); 3-(45 miles); 4a; 4b; 5b; 6-(5); 7-(5); 8-(1); 9; 
10-032-4317) 

E. 1 a-( 120); 1b-(18); 2a-(12); 3-(180-; 4-(250); 5; 7; 8 ; 9a; 11-(pool 
craftshop with indoor fireplace, chapel) 

F. 1; 2-00); 3-05-45); 4; 5; 6 -(row boats, sports equipment) 

G. 1,2,4 

H. $75 per day per group 

I. Mat Senz 

J. Camp Director 

K. YMCA, 13th & McIntyre St., Regina 

L. 527-6661 


THUNDERBIRD 

Location: Candle Lake, Sask. 

7 _ leased; adjacent land available for use. 
Resident — cabins 
Mentally handicapped 

Department of Core Services 


Acreage: 

Type of Camp: 
For use by : 
Sponsor or 
Owner: 
Director: 


M. Koike, Recreation Department, 

North Park Centre 

Box 1240, Prince Albert, Sask. 

Phone: 763-7401 

Campers 30; Staff 11 


Capacity: 

Length of 3 months 

Camping Season: 

Objective: To provide a recreational and camping experience 

for adult mentally handicapped. 


Facilities: 

A. 1 

B. 1,2, 3,9, 12-(50) 

C 1 3 4 5 6 8 

D. 1 -(bus or car); 2-(Prince Albert); 3-(50); 4a; 4b; 5a; 6-(50); 7-(50); 
8(50) 

E. 1 a-(30); 2a-(12); 3-(45); 4-(45); 5; 6 -(dorm, 2 tents); 7; 8 ; 9b; 9c; 

11 -(craft room) 

F. 1-(2); 3-(20); 6-0 large boat) 

I. Marv Koike 

J. Director 

K. North Park Centre, Box 1240, Prince Albert, Sask. 

L. 763-7401 

accredited member OF SCA 

TORCH TRAIL BIBLE CAMP 

Location: Choiceland, Sask. 

Acreage: 180 owned, adjacent land available for camp use. 

Type of Camp: Resident - cabins, semi-wilderness 

For use by: 7 years and over 

Sponsor or Canadian Sunday School Missions 

Owner: Box 84, Choiceland, Sask. 

Phone: 428-2988 
Director or Rev. Jim Gregor 

Com. Chairman: Choiceland, Sask. 

Capacity: Campers 115; Staff 25 

Length of Year roun( j 

Camping Season: 

Rental: Available for rent. 

Objectives: To utilize our facilities and encourage the youth of 

Canada to put their faith and trust in the Lord 
Jesus Christ. 

Facilities: 

A. 2 

B. 1,2,3, 4, 5, 6 , 7, 10, 12-000) 

C. 3, 4, 5, 6 , 7-(Melfort, Traders Trail), 8 , 9-(Forest Reserve and 
Iron Ore Deposits) 

D. l-(car); 2-(Prince Albert, Nipawin, Melfort); 3-(65-30-49); 4a; 4b; 
5b; 6-(30); 7-(30); 8-(60); 9; 10-(428-2988) 

E. 1a-(115); 1b-(50); 2a-(25); 2b-(10); 3-020); 4; 5; 6 ; 7; 8 ; 9a; 

11 -(pool, chapel) 

F. 2-(4); 3-04); 4-(6); 6 -(ponies, pool, golf course) 

G. 1,2 

H. Write for information 

I. Rev. Jim Gregor 

J. Director 

K. Choiceland, Sask. 

L. 428-2988 


CAMP WAKONDA 


Location: 

Acreage: 

Type of Camp: 
For use by: 
Sponsor or 
Owner: 
Address: 


Director: 
Capacity: 
Length of 
Camping Season 
Rental: 
Objectives: 


Wakaw Lake, Sask. (70 miles N.E. of Saskatoon) 

50 owned 
Resident — cabins 
Boys, girls, adults, youth 

Saskatoon YMCA 

Summer Winter 

Box 520, Wakaw, 25, 22nd St. E., 

Sask. Saskatoon, Sask. 

Phone: 233-4983 Phone: 652-7515 

Ben Pickford, 25, 22nd St. E., Saskatoon, Sask. 
Campers 100; Staff 40 

4 months 
Available for rent 

Education through recreation, self-reliance through 
email nrnun activities. 


Facilities: 

A. 1,2 

B. 2, 3, 4, 5,6, 7,9, 12-(2) 

C. 1, 3, 4, 6 , 7, 8 , 9-(30 miles to Batoche, Ft. Carleton, Ukranian 
Orthodox Church) 

D 1-(bus or car); 2-(Prince Albert, Saskatoon); 3-(45-75); 4a; 5b; 
6 -( 8 ); 7 ( 8 ); 8 ( 8 ); 9; 10-(233-4983) 

E. 1a-(100); 1b-(30); 2a-(30); 2b-(5); 3; 4; 5; 6 -(cabins); 7; 8 ; 9a; 
11 -(craft shop) 

F. 1-(2); 2-07); 3-(60); 4; 5-00); 6 -(outtripping equipment) 

G. 1,2,4 

H. $1 per person per day 

I. Ben Pickford 

J. YMCA Camp Director 

K. 25, 22nd St. East, Saskatoon 

L. 652-7515 

accredited member OF SCA 


93 




SASKATCHEWAN 


CAMP WOODBOIA 


Location: 

Acreage: 

Type: 

Sponsored by: 
Address: 


Capacity: 
Ren ta/: 
Objectives: 


3!4 miles south of Wood Mountain 
Leased 

Resident — cabins 

United Church of Canada, Assiniboia Presbytery 

Winter and summer 

Mrs. Kay Mitchell 

Box 25, Melaval 

Campers 96; Leaders 16 

Available for rent. Write for information. 

To promote a camping experience, learning to 
work and play and relate to life in a Christian-like 
manner, and, through leadership and discipline, 
develop potentials that lead to a better society. 


Facilities: 

A. 3 

B. 2, 3, 5, 7, 10, 12-(in regional park) 

C. 4, 5, 6, 7, 9-(old post, museum, Indian Reserve) 

D. l-(car); 2-(Assiniboia); 3-(35 miles); 4a; 4b; 6-(35 miles); 7-(35 
miles); 8-(3% miles); 9 

E. 1-196); 2-(16); 3-(80); 4 (72); 6-(dorm); 7; 8; 9; 10-(pit); 11-(pool 
in regional park) 

G. 1 

H. $1 per day per camper 

I. Mrs. Irene Cole 

J. Camp Chairman 

K. Killdeer, Sask. 

L. 476-2561 


Christopher Lake Baptist Camp 

Rev. H. Cassells, Box 264, Asquith 
Katepwa Baptist Camp 
Mr. L. Chevaldayoff 
163 Hammond Road, Regina 
Kenosee Boys & Girls Camp 
Box 9, Mossomin 
Camp Lemieux 

41,2nd Avenue N.E., Swift Current 


Baptist Union of Western Canada 
First Baptist Church, 

401,4th Ave. North, Saskatoon 
John Bosco Camp 
Box 217, Smeaton 
Canadian Red Cross, Sask. Div. 

2571 Broad Street, Regina 
Saskatchewan CGIT Committee 
406, 29th Street W., Saskatoon 
Canadian Sunday School Mission 
Box 60, Caronport 
Saskatchewan Camp Cherith 

c/o Mrs. Dolores Ohrt, Box 83, Caronport 


Max Abraham 

209 Waterloo Cresc., Saskatoon 
Graham Boyd 
Prince Albert 
Beverly Bullock 

1105 Rowand House, 

9747, 104 Street, Edmonton, Alta. 
Noreen Burton 

9 — 3026 Arlington Ave., Saskatoon 
Doug Conway 

1860 Lome Street, Regina 
Pauline Dobney 

Box 1300, Valley View Center, 
Moose Jaw 
Colleen Gerwing 
Box 265, Hafford 
Heather Graham 

924, 1st Street East, Saskatoon 


Michael Clancy 

Box 100, Carrot River 
Margo Couldwell 

73 Proctor Place, Regina 
David B. Godwin 

Box 1304, Saskatoon 
Al Knox 

#2, 1132 14th St., Saskatoon 
Jan Korven 

1301 Jubilee Drive, Swift Current 


AFFILIATE MEMBERS 

Benevolent Society of Camp McKay 
c/o Mrs. C. Cox, Box 682, Grenfell 
Madge Lake Bible Camp 
Steve Maksymchuk 
Box 981, Swan R iver, Manitoba 
Ranger Lake Bible Camp 
Biggar 

Regina Presbytery Camp Board 

Mrs. M. Macintosh, 41 Fisher St., Regina 

ORGANIZATIONAL MEMBERS 

The Canadian Diabetic Assn., Sask. Div. 

Mrs. A. Salikin, Chairman, 

1021 Ave. N South, Saskatoon 
Knights of Columbus 
Jake A. Volk, 

309 Laurier Drive, Swift Current 
Mennonite Youth Farm Bible Camp 
Box 370, Rosthern 
Camp Monahan 

Rev. K.R. Greer, Dysart 
Sask. Conference Camp Committee 

Lome Rowell, Box 639, Fort Qu'Appelle 


INDIVIDUAL MEMBERS 

Doris Grassie 

1534 Garnet St., Regina 
Flo Holt 

Box 71, Craven 
LaVerne Jantz 
Box 83, Drake 
Don MacAulay 

Box 455, Estevan 
Jack MacKenzie (Life Member) 

307, 2720 College Ave., Regina 
Joy MacKenzie (Life Member) 

#7, 419 Lome St. North, Regina 
Eileen Mayotte (Life Member) 

87 Coldwell Road, Regina 
Pastor Michael John Nel 
Box 147, Hodgeville 
Linda Palin 

Box 558, Lumby, B.C. 

STUDENT MEMBERS 

Roy Listol 

Box 153, Weekes 
Sheila MacCrimmon 

531 3rd Ave. North, Saskatoon 
Bernie McLane 

Box 429, Nipawin 
Peter Mayotte 

87 Coldwell Road, Regina 
Derle Rempel 

Box 249, Davidson 


Camp Shagabec 

Rev. Don MacPherson, Box 152, Morse 
Camp Tapawingo 

c/o Mrs. E.M. Land, Box 713, Shellbrook 
Torch Trail Bible Camp 

Rev. Jim Gregor, Box 84, Choiceland 
Moose Jaw Presbytery Camp Woodboia 
Mrs. Kay Mitchell, Box 25, Melaval 


Sask. Council Girl Guides of Canada 
3501 Dewdney Avenue, Regina 
Camp Thunderbird 

c/o M. Koike, Box 1240, Prince Albert 
Camp Wakonda (YMCA) 

22, 22nd St. East, Saskatoon 
Camp Ta-Wa-Si (YMCA) 

13th & McIntyre Street, Regina 
Camp Kesuk (YMCA) 

3rd Ave. & 24th Street, Saskatoon 
Jeannette Lake Camping Association 
Box 902, Saskatoon 


Marg Pezderic 

#42, 1302 Windsor St., Regina 

Doug Porteous 

Box 201, R.R. #4, Saskatoon 
W. Alan Porter 
Box 8, Kelfield 
Lome Rowell 

Fort Qu'Appelle 
Martyn Sadler 

Apt. 1204, 3400 Riverspray Cresc., 
Mississauga, Ontario 

Don Sherman 

274 Waterloo Cresc., Saskatoon 
Erland Sundby 

Box 68, Stewart Valley 
Adriana Van Duyvendyk 
1701 Central Ave., 

Sutherland Sub., Saskatoon 


Dale Ripplinger 

113 Seminary Cresc., Saskatoon 

John Vogt 

#3, 1502 105 St., North Battleford 
Lee Yeomans 
Australia 
Gaylene Zibin 

1325 12th St. East, Saskatoon 
Edward J. Zychlowski 
Box 262, Pelly 


Crestex Limited 

68 Broadview Ave., Toronto, Ontario 


COMMERCIAL MEMBERS 

Evangelical Enterprises Society Old Fashion Foods 

Successful Living 511 Victoria Ave., Regina 

Mrs. Marilynne E. Foster 
Box 600, Beaverlodge, Alta. 


The use of this directory for commercial purposes without the written consent of the Saskatchewan Camping Association is prohibited. 

The information in this directory has been supplied by member camps and is correct to the best of our knowledge at the time of publication. 


94 



GRANT 

CANADA'S LARGEST & OLDEST MANUFACTURER 
OF SWISS EMBROIDERED EMBLEMS 


Official to_ 


ROYAL LIFESAVING 
Y.M.C.A. 

BOY SCOUTS 



TO HAVE YOUR CAMP CREST CUSTOM MADE TO 
YOUR SPECIFICATIONS 
SEND COMPLETE 
DETAILS 
Size Quantity 

Sketch^f'possible to:- Stanley A. Grant Limited/134 Park Lawn Rd. Toronto M8Y 3H9/255-3421 


GRANT 



EMBLEMS 


r 



360 Acre campsite with completely private lake 
in Lake Rosseau Area 
49 girls and 49 boys ages 7-14 

Shirley and Ted Yard, Camp Directors 

ROSSEAU P.O. MUSKOKA ONTARIO P0C1J0 
TEL.: (705) 732-4389 _ 


Kilcoo Camp 


SWALLOWDALE CAMP 

RONALD AND MARGARET WALBANK 


Camp 

Kandalore 

Outpost 

Island 

BOYS AND GIRLS, AGES 5 TO 14, WITH ALL 


HALIBURTON 

TEMAGAMI 

REGULAR CAMPING ACTIVITIES, SPECIALIZING IN A 




COMPETITIVE SWIMMING PROGRAM 


KIRK A.W.WIPPER 

10 DOUGLAS CRESCENT 

19 MCARTHUR ST. RR ’ 

WESTON, ONTARIO HUNTSVILLE, ONTARIO 


TORONTO, ONTARIO M4W 2E7 

TEL.-(416) 241-6250 (705) - 789-4891 


1 __ 












RICHILDACA 


MR & MRS W J BABCOCK 
193 RICHMOND ST 
RICHMOND HILL ONT 
L4C 3Y7 


802570 L 


GOOD CAMP 





