ISSN 008-3119 



CCIflipiAQ 


june/juin edition 1976 




OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OFFICIELLE 


THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION / L'ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU CANADA 






CANADIAN CAMPING 
ASSOCIATION 

Suite 203, 102 Eglinton Avenue East 
Toronto, Ontario M4P 1E1, Canada 

Executive: 


table of contents-sommaire 


Vol. 28 No. 3 

June Edition 1976 edition de juin 

EDITORIAL. 3 

by Helen E. Stewart 


President: 

Vice President: 

Secretary: 

Treasurer: 


Ron Johnstone 
Jack Pearse 
Jay Haddad 
Bill Swift 


VIEWPOINT. 

by Eileen Mayotte 


CHILDREN AND THE OUTDOORS 
by John Pratt 


4 

6 


THE GARDEN OF EATIN’ 
by Paul Rush ton 


7 


"CANADIAN CAMPING" 
PERSONNEL 


Managing Director: 
Editor: 

Circulation Manager: 
Directory Chairman: 


Jocelyn Palm 
Helen E. Stewart 
Mary Pat Bradbury 
Peter Gilbert 


"Canadian Camping" is the official publica¬ 
tion of the Canadian Camping Association. 
Published four times a year. 


IN MEMORIAM - LORNE BROWN. 

by C.R. “Blue hie” Black stock 

IN MEMORIAM - ALEX PEEPRE. 

by Colin C. Kelly 

COMMENT SE PREPARER A UNE EXPEDITION EN CANOT 
by Jacques Grenier, Ph.D. 

A PLACE OF QUIET. 

by W.E. (Ted) Yard 

THEOUTDOORSMAN. 

by Larry R. Johnstone 


10 

11 

12 

15 

17 


Subscription rates: 

$5.00 - 1 year; $12.00 - 3 years 
Single copy - $1.50 
CCA membership includes subscription 


PENSEES. 17 

JUST WHAT DO YOU DO ALL DAY? . 18 

by Liz Greenway 

HAVE YOU HEARD? DO YOU KNOW?. 19 

by Helen E. Stewart 


PROVINCIAL OFFICES 


BUREAUX PROVINCIAL 


B.C. Camping Association 
1616 West 7th Avenue, Vancouver V6J 1F5 
(John Hasell, President) 


Alberta Camping Association 
Box 1482, Innisfail, Alberta TOM 1A0 
(Jim McVeigh, President) 


Saskatchewan Camping Association 
P.0. Box 823 
Regina, Saskatchewan 
(Margaret Pezderic, President) 


Manitoba Camping Association 
301 Vaughan Street 
Winnipeg, Manitoba R3B 2N7 
(Punch Jackson, President) 


Ontario Camping Association 
102 Eglinton Avenue East, Suite 203 
Toronto, Ont. M4P 1E1 
(Kirk Wipper, President) 


New Brunswick Camping Association 
Box 5, Bath, New Brunswick 
(Rev. Philip Giberson, President) 


L 'association des camps du Quebec 
and 

Quebec Camping Association 
1415 est rue Jarry, Montreal, Que. H2E 1A7 
(Bill McCarthy, president) 

English Section 
2233 Belgrave Ave. 

Montreal, Que. H4A 2L9 
(Val Willis, President) 

Section frangaise 

1415 est rue Jarry, Montreal, Que. H2E 1A7 
(Georges Robitaille, president) 


Nova Scotia Camping Association 
Box 696, Halifax, Nova Scotia 
(George Matthews, President) 


Newfoundland & Labrador 
Camping Association 
Box 4188, St. John's, Newfoundland 
(Barbara Taylor, President) 


REPRODUCTION. IN ANY FORM. OF 
MATERIAL IN "CANADIAN CAMPING" 
MUST HAVE WRITTEN PERMISSION OF 
THE CANADIAN CAMPING 
ASSOCIATION 



















editorial 


—by Helen E. Stewart 


This issue of Canadian Camping is its last. The decision was 
made by the CCA Board at the recent meetings in Quebec 
City and was one based wholely on financial considerations. 
A hard decision to make but one that was very necessary. 

Those of us responsible for Canadian Camping believed 
the magazine to be a very distinct and vital link with the 
provinces and that it helped to further the image of camp¬ 
ing across Canada. The Editorial Committee strived to 
produce material that would answer the needs and interests 
of our readers; as a result, many new columns have appeared 
in the magazine. To all those who submitted articles and 
photos for consideration, my sincere thanks. If your contri¬ 
bution has not appeared as yet, it might still be used 
because no decision has been reached if or when anything 
else will be devised to take the place of Canadian Camping. 
The April and june issues were planned when word reached 
me that there would be but one more issue . . . which meant 
that some articles could not be used. I trust I have made the 
right decisions and that those contributors whose copy does 
not appear will understand. 

Many people have made my task as Editor a pleasant 
one. There are two names that spring to mind when I 
consider the greatest help I’ve received and I thank them 
most sincerely . . . Mary Jane Sanderson who has been 
responsible for all the sketches (unless otherwise signed) 
that have appeared in the magazine since the Fall 72 issue 
and Paul Belanger for his tremendous work in translating. 

And so we have come to the end of an era. Sad but true. 


Ce numero de Canadian Camping est le dernier. C’est la 
decision a laquelle est arrive le conseil d’administration de 
I’Association des Camps du Canada a sa reunion de Quebec 
recemment, a cause de la non-rentabilite de la revue. La 
decision ne fut pas facile mais elle s’imposait. 

Nous, les responsables de Canadian Camping considerions 
la revue comme un lien vital et bien caracterise entre I’ACC 
et les provinces. De plus la revue contribuait a faire con- 
naftre le monde des camps de vacances a travers le pays. 
L’editeur de la revue et son comite se sont efforces de 
publier des articles repondant aux besoins et aux interets 
des abonnes; c’est pourquoi plusieurs rubriques nouvelles 
sont apparues dans la revue ces dernieres annees. Merci du 
fond du coeur a tous ceux qui nous ont envoye articles et 
photos. Si votre materiel n’a pas ete utilise, il peut I’etre 
encore car il y aura peut-etre une publication moins cou- 
teusepourremplacer Canadian Camping. Les numeros d’avril 
et juin etaient planifies lorsque j’ai appris qu’il n’y aurait 
plus de publication apres ce numero . . . cela signifiait que 
certains articles ne pourraient pas etre utilises. J’espere 
n’avoir lese personne et j’ose croire que les auteurs d’articles 
non publies comprendront. 

Plusieurs collaborateurs ont rendu plaisante ma tache 
d’editeur. Deux noms me viennent a I’esprit quand je pense 
a ceux qui m’ont le plus aide et je les remercie beaucoup . . . 
Mary Jane Sanderson, auteur depuis 1972 de tous les ecrits 
non signes qui ont paru dans la revue, et Paul Belanger pour 
son excellent travail de traduction. 

Nous voila rendus a la fin d’une epoque. C’est triste mais 
c’est la realite. 


Highest value, proven equipment for individuals 
and organizations involved in 
self-propelled outdoor activities . . . 
canoeing, kayaking, hiking, backpacking, 
snowshoeing, cross country skiing, orienteering 
and all-season camping. 




Free mail order catalogue on request; 
institutional inquiries welcomed. 

Equipment rentals and leasing available. 


1 yH^ppy Outdoors <, 


LTD. 

433 ST. MARY'S ROAD 


WINNIPEG, MANITOBA R2M 3K7 


(204) 233-1730 


GROUP ACCOMMODATION 
-SUMMER OLYMPICS- 
IN MONTREAL 

At Green Acres Country Day Camp, a short distance north of 
Montreal. Extensive facilities including: Olympic size pool, 
Bar-B-Que area for cook-outs, etc. Indoor sleeping accommo¬ 
dation, modern toilets. Directors available to provide assist¬ 
ance, supervision, emergency attention, etc. 

Write: Green Acres Day Camp, 

4810 Mariette Ave., Montreal, Quebec 
or call (514)488-9148 


3 








viewpoint /point de vue 



—by Eileen Mayotte 


“Responsibility is attained slowly, it requires daily practice 
in exercising judgment and in making choices about matters 
appropriate to one’s age and comprehension.” Haim G. 
Ginott in his book ' Parent-Child’ continues and his next 
remark is adapted to the camping situation, “Responsibility 
is fostered by allowing the campers a voice, a choice in 
matters that affect them.” 

We in the camping field have said repeatedly and believe 
that we deal with the youth, the most valuable commodity 
that this country produces. These campers represent the 
future of Canada. Because our future depends upon youth, 
we too have a responsibility, not just to guide — not just to 
provide a program - not just to teach a skill - not just to 
provide a safe camp — not just to provide good nutrition, 
but to be sure that the camper has an opportunity to 
realize his potential and more important has an opportunity 
to reach it. The awareness of potential, the growth, the self 
worth of a camper is determined firstly by himself, secondly 
by his cabin counsellor and thirdly by the remainder of the 
camp staff. 

Growth of the camper is not determined by the size of 
the camp, or the latest equipment; it is entirely dependent 
upon his own motivation, the camp leadership and particu¬ 
larly upon his cabin counsellor. 

A wise counsellor will realize that he has a leadership 
resource in his own cabin group. Campers with careful 
guidance can become leaders in their own right. Do we 
involve the camper in group planning? Do we let campers 
know that they will be held accountable to others and 
themselves? Do we instill in campers an attitude of caring 
about themselves and others? Do we help campers to be 
sensitive to their own needs and desires and those of their 
fellow campers? 

Some people believe, and perhaps fear, that as the 
camper is given responsibility the counsellor may become 
less important. Rather, the counsellor’s role is more impor¬ 
tant as he becomes more aware of interaction within the 
group, recognizes where a word is needed to help the 
group reach a decision, but does not take the responsibility 
away from the camper. This is the reason we need mature 
and experienced people as counsellors, those who can stand 
back and let things happen. 

Many camp directors believe that young campers cannot 
and should not make decisions regarding program. As people 
responsible for the success of the camp, selections must be 
made regarding the number of opportunities provided for 
the campers. The point to make here is that the selecting 
belongs to the administration — the choosing should be the 
right of the camper. 

An activity chosen by a camper will be participated in 
with enthusiasm and happiness. If the camper is forced to 
participate without any decision on his part it could have 
an undesirable influence on the development of the young 


“La responsabilite s’acquiert lentement. On la developpe 
grace a I’exercice quotidien de son jugement et de sa capa¬ 
city de choisir dans des domaines adaptes a son age et a sa 
comprehension.” Haim G. Ginott dans son livre ‘Parent- 
Child’ fait une autre remarque appliquee a la vie au camp: 
“La responsabilite se developpe si les campeurs peuvent 
s’exprimer, s’ils peuvent faire des choix dans les domaines 
qui les touchent.” 

Nous aimons dire, et nous en sommes convaincus nous 
les responsables de camps, que la jeunesse avec laquelle nous 
travaillons est la ressource la plus precieuse que produit 
notre pays. Ces jeunes campeurs sont I’avenirdu Canada.Or 
parce que notre avenir depend de notre jeunesse, nous 
devons au camp non seulement lui fournir un programme — 
non seulement la guider — non seulement lui enseignerdes 
techniques — non seulement voir a sa securite — non seule¬ 
ment la bien nourrir, mais nous assurer qu’elle devient 
consciente de ses capacites, plus encore qu’elle a la chance 
de les actualiser. La conscience de ses capacites, de son 
developpement et de sa valeur est determinee d’abord par 
le campeur lui-meme, ensuite par son moniteur et enfin par 
tout le personnel du camp. 

La croissance du campeur n’est pas conditionnee par 
I’importance du camp ou des equipements; el le depend 
totalement de sa motivation personnels et du leadership 
exerce au camp, principalement par son moniteur d’equipe. 

Le moniteur avise va se rendre compte qu’au sein de son 
equipe de campeurs, il existe des leaders en puissance. S’ils 
sont bien guides, ils vont se reveler de vrais chefs. Savons- 
nous impliquer les campeurs dans la planification de la vie 
du groupe? Savons-nous leur donner des responsabilites? 
Prenons-nous soin de leur laisser savoir qu’ils sont respon¬ 
sables face aux membres du groupe, face a eux-memes? Leur 
enseignons-nous a se soucier d’eux-memes et des autres? Les 
aidons-nous a decouvrir leurs propres besoins, leurs desirs et 
ceux des autres? 

On croit peut-etre et on craint que plus on confie de 
responsabilites au campeur, plus le moniteur perd de son 
prestige. C’est faux car le role du moniteur devient plus 
important a mesure qu’il est plus conscient des interactions 
au sein du groupe, a mesure qu’il decouvre quand et com¬ 
ment intervenir pour aider le groupe a prendre une decision 
sans lui enlever sa responsabilite. C’est pour cela que nous 
avons besoin, comme moniteurs, de personnes mures qui 
ont de I’experience et qui peuvent se retirer un peu pour 
laisser les evenements se produire. 

Plusieurs directeurs de camp sont convaincus que les 
jeunes campeurs ne peuvent ni ne doivent decider de choses 
qui touchent le programme. Or, en realite, c’est aux respon¬ 
sables de camps qu’il revient de determiner quand les cam¬ 
peurs pourront faire des choix. Le principe a sauvegarder 
est le suivant: C’est (’administration du camp qui determine 
le cadre de la liberte des jeunes — la liberte de choix a I’in- 


4 


personality. Everything that the camper does, in some way, 
is a preparation for life. A child needs an opportunity to 
exercise judgment, make choices and develop his own 
standards. 

The camper’s choice may not necessarily be the same as 
the counsellor’s. In a cabin, the decision can be made as a 
group decision. Time and patience are needed. The program 
result - be it a skit or a skill - may not have the perfection 
that the adult expects. Remember, the camper is not func¬ 
tioning in order to enhance the prestige of the cabin coun¬ 
sellor or the director. Campers love to plan, to carry through 
and evaluate — campers may not use this term. 

Their evaluation will be more critical of their own pro¬ 
duction than any counsellor’s. As well as being critical of 
themselves, they will learn from their mistakes. The coun¬ 
sellor’s role again is to be aware of group interaction and to 
help the group see the positives in their evaluation. 

Ginott says that values cannot be taught directly. They 
are absorbed, and become part of the child only through 
his identification with, and emulation of persons who gain 
his love and respect. A camper who lives with criticism does 
not learn responsibility. He learns to condemn himself, 
doubt his ability, find fault, and distrust others. 

Campers expect challenge, fun, excitement, new friends, 
a smile and a hand on the shoulder from his counsellor. He 
wants to be trusted, permitted to make choices, make mis¬ 
takes, know that he is wanted, day dream a little, do things 
with and for his counsellor, joke and laugh. These are some 
of the expectations of the camper and can be the beginning 
of the growth of the camper, whom we see as having a role 
in the future of our country. 


Students — 15 to 20 years 

GOLD DUST 

July 23 • August 23 

Essentially a camping, hiking and canoeing 
adventure in Canada’s far west and north: 
the Rockies, the Teslin and Yukon Rivers, 
the Klondikers' trail, Skagway, Whitehorse 
and Dawson City. 

Price is all-inclusive from Toronto to 
Toronto. All you need is your own personal 
camping gear. (Tents provided.) 

$ 1 , 165.00 

For brochure, write to: 

BUTTERFIELD & ROBINSON TRAVEL 
330 BAY STREET, SUITE 1604 
TORONTO, ONTARIO M5H 2S8 


terieur de ce cadre devrait vraiment appartenir aux enfants. 

Un campeur qui choisit une activite va y participer avec 
joie et enthousiasme. S’il est force de participer sans avoir 
son mot a dire cela ne favorise pas le developpement de sa 
jeune personnalite. Tout ce que le campeur fait est en 
quelque sorte une preparation pour la vie. L’enfant a besoin 
d’occasions ou il va exercer son jugement, faire des choix et 
developper ses propres criteres de reference. 

Si le campeur peut decider, sa decision ne sera pas neces- 
sairement la meme que celle que prendrait son moniteur. Au 
niveau de la hutte, les decisions peuvent se prendre en 
groupe. Cela exige du temps et de la patience. Le programme 
ou I ’activite resultant d’une decision de groupe (e.g.: un 
sketch ou I’apprentissage d’une technique) n’atteindra peut- 
etre pas la perfection que les adultes desirent. L’objectif des 
activites des campeurs n’est pas d’augmenter le prestige du 
moniteur ou du directeur de camp! Les jeunes aiment 
planifier des projets, les realiser et ensuite s’evaluer — (ils 
n’utiliseront sans doute pas ces expressions la). 

Leur evaluation des choses qu’ils ont accomplies sera 
souvent plus severe que celle du moniteur. En s’auto-evaluant, 
ils vont tirer des logons de leurs echecs. Le role du moniteur 
ici sera a nouveau d’etre attentif a ce qui se passe entre les 
differents membres de I’equipe et de les aider dans leur 
evaluation a voir les cotes positifs de ce qu’ils ont fait. 

Ginott remarque que les valeurs ne se transmettent pas 
directement. Elies sont acquises par I’enfant, elles deviennent 
partie de lui-meme grace au processus d’identification avec 
des personnes qu’il aime et respecte, et a qui il veut ressem- 
bler. Un campeur qui vit dans un climat de critique ne 
developpe pas sa responsabilite. II apprend a se blamer lui- 
meme, a douter de ses capacites, a critiquer les autres et a 
ne pas leur faire confiance. 

Les campeurs veulent faire face a des defis, avoir du 
plaisir, s’emerveiller, se faire de nouveaux amis, vivre avec un 
moniteur qui sourit et aime leur compagnie. Ils desirent 
qu’on leur fasse confiance, qu’on leur permette de choisir 
eux-memes et parfois de se tromper; ils veulent se sentir 
acceptes, pouvoir rever, collaborer avec leur moniteur et lui 
rendre service, blaguer et rire! Ce sont la quelques unes des 
attentes des jeunes campeurs. Cette jeunesse est I’avenirde 
notre pays; c’est maintenant, au camp, que sa maturation 
se construit. 


"TUIT" 


NOW YOU'VE GOT ONE 

This is an indispensable item for everybody. 
For years people have been saying 
"I'll do it as soon as I get a "round tuit". 
The above is a "round tuit". 

Cut it out, 

keep it handy and you will have no more 
trouble getting all those extras done 
because you have finally gotten 
a "round tuit". 

Reprinted with permission. 


5 




Children and the Outdoors 


NATURE TRAILS 

Nature trails are set up to provide people with an efficient 
means of studying a cross-section of the flora and fauna of 
a location. Explanations and identification of species are 
set up in different ways. 

Temporary nature trails may be established the night 
before a school or other group are scheduled to follow the 
trail. This type overcomes the problems of interference with 
trails and the need for frequent changes. Coloured stakes 
with consecutive numbers can be stuck into the ground at 
carefully-chosen positions. Instruction sheets with relevant 
information or questions concerning each station (which is 
denoted by one of the stakes) are given to each individual 
or group of individuals who set out on the trail. Someone 
who either knows the answers or has an answer sheet should 
be available. 

Some permanent nature trails are provided with signs. 
These may have information about the site and/or pictures. 
Acts of vandalism directed towards the signs or the flora 
and fauna may make this a difficult type of trail to main¬ 
tain. Even seasonal changes create a need for replacing signs. 

Perhaps the best type of permanent trail is that which 
has numbered stakes securely positioned in the ground at 
each place of interest. Then question or information sheets 
concerning each station can occasionally be changed. It is 
almost a necessity to have a summer and a winter sheet. 

Some suggestions for setting up the trail are: 

use cedar or hemlock for stakes, preferably creosoted 
cut stakes at a 45° angle at the top for numbers 
set stakes in ground at least 2Vi feet and fasten on a 
cross-piece for security 

add secure steps and railings in possibly dangerous 
places 

railings can be made to look reasonably natural 
steps, made of cedar, can be nailed onto cedar stakes 
driven into the ground. 

N.B. The trail can be greatly improved by planting worth¬ 
while trees, shrubs, flowers, rocks, stumps, etc. 

There are many other things of interest which can be 
incorporated into your nature trail . . . 

— a tree stump showing annual rings 

a tree stump showing the work of bark beetles, sow 
bugs, etc. 

— decaying wood showing growth of fungi 

— some large rocks hosting lichen 

large rocks showing fossils, sedimentary layers, How 
lines, etc. 

brush heaps to give shelter for rabbits, etc. 
deciduous and evergreen trees in close proximity to 
compare 

deciduous trees with compound and simple leaves 
several kinds of evergreen trees to show comparisons 
trees with different kinds of fruit, e.g., maple keys, 
acorns, chestnuts, etc. 

trees with interesting bark, e.g., white birch, staghorn 
sumac, etc. 


—by John Pratt 

Director , 

Durham Region Board of Education's 
Outdoor Education Program , 
Camp Samac 

— trees with beautiful flowers, e.g., chestnut, Japanese 
cherry, etc. 

— trees with interesting leaves, e.g., silver poplar, aspen, 
etc. 

vines like wild grape to show the tendrils 

— golden rod to show the galls 

milk-weed to host Monarch butterflies, show seed 
dispersal 

poison ivy (at a safe distance) and jewel-weed (its cure) 
spring flowers such as violets, trilliums, etc. 

— ferns and mosses 

— a tree with a woodpecker’s hole in it 
a tree perforated by sapsuckers 

a groundhog’s hole 

— a squirrel’s nest 

— bird’s nest (from a distance) 

— a meandering stream 

— bank and gully erosion 

— a “beaver tree” or wood cut by them 

evergreen, deciduous forest, marsh and meadow habi¬ 
tats to compare and contrast. 

LES ENFANTS ET LE PLEIN AIR - L’auteur explique 
comment organiser des sentiers de nature temporaires et 
permanents. II suggere une foule d’idees interessantes qui 
peuvent enrichir votre propre sentier de nature. 

LEATHER 
AND SUPPLIES 
FOR YOUR 
ARTS & CRAFTS 
DEPARTMENT 

We can supply pieces of leather as well as 
full skins at keen prices. 


CAPITAL FINDINGS & LEATHER LTD. 
580 King St. W., Toronto, Ont. M5V 1 M3 

(416) 363-8563 


6 




The fjarder^Of Eatfr^ 


—by Paul Rushton 

Director of Camp Trail finder 


Rub a handful of soft, warm soil between your hands. 
Feel good? Let some dribble through your fingers. Now 
face the caressing warmth of a summer wind and dwell for 
a moment on what the combined elements of soil, sun and 
rain can do for your camp in the form of a lush and pro¬ 
ductive vegetable garden. No market produce can equal the 
flavour and tenderness of freshly picked fruits and vegetables. 

But just to dwell on such a spectacle will hardly suffice. 
Get down to earth! Develop your ideas into a fine produc¬ 
tion for your entire camp to enjoy. Allocate a little corner 
or more (a hectare if you’re with it) of your camp to the 
fascinating growth of fresh, crisp edibles. And why not 
some flowers too! You’re guaranteed to get results beyond 
all expectations if you plan ahead, ask for local advice and 
use your imagination. And you’ll captivate and excite more 
than the average camper along the way, too. 

Our camp garden evolved, in a way, by chance. Our 
riding program had grown to where it became abundantly 
clear that both the campers and horses required a much 
greater area to manoeuvre if we were to maintain our 
quality of teaching riding. The corral would have to be 
opened along one side of its entire length, if we were to 
perform an adequate job of enlarging. When you’re faced 
with the task of extricating hundreds of steel fence staples 
embedded in dozens of cedar posts, to say nothing about 
the posts, wire and gate, cunning ideas are sometimes quick 
to surface. 

Eureka! Why not leave the existing corral just as it is . . . 
richly fertilized and all, and convert it into a fine garden. 
Brilliant! It was already well into the month of May but the 
excitement of this new venture provided all the ambition 
needed to quickly swing into action. 

Another legacy from our horses helped out at this point 
in that the years of continual pounding of their hooves over 
the entire area of the old corral gave us a reasonably flat 
surface to begin with. With the aid of a power-driven culti- 
vator-cum-plow, which we had inherited with our property, 
we set about the task of loosening the enriched soil to a 
depth of about nine inches. Nowadays, such a vintage 
machine would be described as a Rototiller which, if not 
purchased, may be rented either with or without an operator 
to satisfy your need. On the other hand, if the area being 
worked is small you can easily prepare the ground using a 
garden spade. Don’t throw up the bottom earth and bury 
the rich soil beneath it. Be mindful, too, that the particular 
shape of a garden is of no importance; however, the closer 
it is to a square, the better. 

It should be remembered that, afterplanting and seeding, 
sunlight and moisture are the two most important require¬ 
ments in developing a productive garden. Establish your 
garden, if at all possible, to take advantage of a southern 


exposure; next to this a southwestern, or southeastern; and 
poorest of all, a northern. The selection of suitable soil is 
also a matter of great importance. By all means avoid a low, 
wet piece of ground; for though the sun may shine upon it 
all day long, and you have heaped it with the richest ferti¬ 
lizer, it will surely be unsuitable for a garden. Sandy loam, 
light to medium clay or turfy loam will provide an excellent 
base for your garden. 

Starting from scratch, garden soil may be enriched using 
organic or inorganic methods of fertilizing along with skill¬ 
ful cultivation. Inorganic fertilizers are those composed of 
matter that is not animal or vegetable and made of any 
chemical compound not classified as organic; most inorganic 
compounds do not contain carbon and are derived from 
mineral sources. Organic gardening (the method we’ve 
adopted and intend to keep) is becoming increasingly more 
popular with plot gardeners and large acreage owners. This 
has been brought about not only by skyrocketing cost of 
inorganic fertilizers but by the startling results that farmers 
and gardeners alike are deriving from the use of such organic 
fertilizers as: milorganite; compost; rock phosphate; bone 
meal; colloidal phosphate;potash rock (Hybro-Tite); ground 
limestone as well as dolomite. Sound too sophisticated? 
Not really, for some of the largest fertilizer companies now 
have an all-purpose, all organic plant food on today’s mar¬ 
ket. A wise, initial procedure would be to have a soil test 
made of your garden area; as a public service to you, local 
government agricultural representatives will help out in 
this respect. 

The amount of time you spend properly tilling your 
garden will, in many ways, effect the end results. Follow 
closely the advice of your government agricultural repre¬ 
sentative, local market gardeners and the suppliers’ direc¬ 
tions on fertilizer bags and the like. Gently probe your seed 
and plant supplier for some of their best kept tips on good 
planting advice. 

Gardens develop from the sowing of seeds or the trans¬ 
planting of plants first seeded in greenhouses during the 
winter months to effect an early spring start in the garden. 
Greenhouse-grown plants, or boxed plants as they are com¬ 
monly called, include such species as: cabbages; cucumbers; 
broccoli; cauliflower; peppers: tomatoes; celery; Brussel 
sprouts and Spanish onions, to name but a few. You, too, 
can nurse these plants from seed during the winter months 
but, unless you are experienced, you’ll run the risk of 
developing muted or spindly plants, so beware. Plants 
offered for sale by reputable dealers are by far the best 
deal; in fact, most good dealers will replace plants that, for 
reasonable cause, fail to properly develop. 

Boxed plants are quite hardy and, in most instances, can 
be transplanted into the ground about mid-May (in Ontario) 


7 


with little risk of frost EXCEPT for delicate plants such as 
peppers, tomatoes, cucumbers, etc. Weather conditions can 
change abruptly any time or anyplace; for this reason the 
more delicate plants must be adequately protected from the 
risk of late spring ground frost. Up and until the second 
week of June keep a weather ear to your local radio station 
for early warnings of frost in the area. 

When selecting boxed plants for your garden, be selective. 
Don’t necessarily buy the first ones you come upon. Tilt 
each box carefully, and note the stem structure. Will they 
survive the trauma of a transplant? Be sure each box is 
equipped with a plastic or wood stake identifying the con¬ 
tents so that what you plant as cauliflowers hopefully 
develop as such, and that the early variety of tomatoes 
become ripe before late September. If, according to your 
best judgment, you deem it too early to transplant, simply 
store the boxed plants indoors at night after a thorough 
watering. (Caution! Plants should never be exposed to the 
outside air when being transported anything above a snail- 
paced speed as such exposure may cause fatal windburn to 
the plants.) 

It may be assumed at this point that, except for the 
purchase of a few common garden tools, viz., hoe, dibble, 
seed drill, spade (if not already on hand), trowel, 200 feet 
of masons line and a wooden yardstick, you’re about ready 
to test your mettle alongside the good earth. Much satis¬ 
faction will be gleaned from your garden if you strive for a 
semblance of order from the outset. Carefully lay out each 
row before commencing to transplant. Sharpen a half-dozen 
30-inch wooden stakes so that their pointed end may easily 
be driven into the ground at selected intervals. Establish the 
initial row with great care in order to have an accurate 
guideline for the subsequent rows. When the line is accurately 
set you’re ready to start transplanting. Using the yardstick, 
you can space your plants at the desired intervals. Take the 
dibble, or trowel, in hand and pierce an opening in the 
ground to receive each plant. Slide or jiggle an earth-laden 
root into each pocket you create being careful to snugly 
pack the surrounding soil against the transplant before going 
on to the next one. Give the transplant plenty of room to 
develop as well as to leave ample space for eventual weeding. 
Leave a minimum of 30 inches between rows and more 
where varieties such as tomatoes, squash and cucumbers are 
concerned. You’ll be proud of your garden so leave ample 
space for the campers and staff to walk up and down. 
Nothing short of a violent thunderstorm will now keep you 
from completing the planting. Keep the rows straight; if 
you foul up one correct it on the next row by going back 
one row for more accurate dimensions. It’s better to have 
one crooked row than ten. 

Use the same marking out procedure for seeding as you 
do for transplanting. When the masons line is in place use 
the furrowing tool, or the corner of a garden hoe to open a 
trough the required distance along the entire length of the 
row. Proper depths will vary so keep a close tab on the seed 
supplier’s directions. Seeding by hand, except for bulky 
seeds such as com, peas, beans, cucumbers, etc., is a bit 
tricky for we tend to drop too many seeds in too short a 
distance. Take time to avoid this occurrence or you will 
need to quickly remedy a bunched effect once the seeds 
germinate and appear above the ground’s surface. 

You may elect to be somewhat more sophisticated and 
purchase seed tapes through catalogue seedhouses or garden 
nurseries. This unique method carefully spaces seeds for you 


inside a water-soluble tape that decomposes itself in the 
ground, when water is added to the soil area. Using this 
method, curved or straight rows are planted with equal 
ease, and the plants emerge evenly spaced. Of course, such 
labour-saving devices cost more than conventional methods 
but you balance this with the timesaving factor involved. 
Remember, too, that mechanical seeding devices can be 
purchased for about $14.00 and, with care, should last for 
years to come. This device can be set to accurately drop 
seeds in the required manner for their size and spacing, pro¬ 
viding you become adept at pushing it at the exact speed. 

Be sure to purchase seed potatoes for planting in your 
garden. Ordinary table potatoes may be used but there’s an 
element of risk in their reproductive quality on account of 
techniques used in the potato industry to preserve their 
nature. Seed potatoes should be acquired quite early in the 
spring as they are frequently sold out by late May. A rather 
unique method of preparation is used to ready potato seeds 
for planting. Using a pocket, or paring knife, cut sections 
from the whole potato so that two, but not more than three 
eyes (sprouts or buds) form part of each segment. Take care 
not to rub off these life-giving shoots as they alone effect 
reproduction. Whole potatoes that are somewhat small 
should be planted as is. After positioning the intended row, 
using the foregoing method, dig holes about six inches deep 
and 18 inches apart along the entire length of each row. 
Drop one potato segment into each hole then, when replac¬ 
ing the soil, form a mound about six inches above the 
ground level to lend support to the extensive vines that will 
eventually appear. 

Within a few short days a miraculous change will have 
come over your garden. Seeds will have germinated stimulat¬ 
ing the eruption of new life up and down the rows you laid 
out just a week or ten days ago. Your transplants will now 
be firmly established and standing erect like sentinels in the 
wind. Things are great. You’ve done quite well. Now, stand 
back! Rest your eyes and have your heart gladden at the 
sight of this great array of nature’s little wonders that you’ll 
continue to nurture along. 

Maintaining your garden is crucial if you expect to 
derive much from it. Frequent visual checks up and down 
each row will quickly tell what is needed. The two most 
important tasks at this time will be watering and weeding. 
Nature, of course, will assist with the former and, if you 
procrastinate, you’ll have the devil’s time with the latter. It 
is at this time, too, that you should correct any bunched 
conditions along each row due to over-seeding as mentioned 
earlier. Go about this one-time chore effectively if you 
expect your seeded plants to reach full maturity. 

“Never put off ’til tomorrow what you can do today” is 
still sound advice for the novice “farmer”. Weeds, when 
left to meander as they please, can totally annihilate an 
otherwise beautiful garden. If you are fortunate to have a 
power-driven cultivator, and had the presence of mind to 
leave sufficient walking space between each row, it will be a 
breeze for you. Once-a-week attention may well suffice. Be 
very careful cultivating at close range to your plants; rough 
treatment or a minor collision with any sharp tool will 
usually mean the end of a plant. 

For those who must bend to the task of weeding using a 
simple garden hoe or three-pronged hand cultivator, it is 
even more essential to keep well ahead of the weeds or a 
sudden takeover may occur. A good time to weed is after a 


8 



rainfall but not before surface water has adequately ab¬ 
sorbed itself into the ground. 

Along about now you should stake your tomato plants 
(if you did not do it at the time of planting) in order to give 
them adequate support when they become heavily laden 
with fruit. Sharpen a number of wooden stakes at one end 
so that you may carefully slide or tap one into the ground 
close to the main stem of each plant. The stakes should be 
about 30 to 40 inches long so that ties may be progressively 
added as the plants grow skywards. 

While you and yours (the campers will have arrived by 
this time) are in the garden admiring the magic of summer, 
you’ll no doubt observe how remarkably fast the leaf 
lettuce, radishes and green onions are nearing maturity. 
With a little planning and proper care your camp can have 
an abundance of these goodies for your tables during late 
June through until September. We sure did! The secret is 
to sprinkle lettuce and radish seeds along the open spaces as 
you harvest mature plants. The effect is that you’ll have 
new growth coming along throughout the summer and fall. 

More than likely, green and yellow beans will be the 
next succulent treat you’ll gather in your garden. Beans 
grow and multiply quite rapidly so prepare yourselves for 
several good feeds. This will come about early in July all 
things being equal. Towards the end of the month carrots 
will be ready to pull up, followed closely by the beets. 
Small cucumbers will now be formed on their wandering 
vines. Hubbard and pepper squash will have made their 
debut. 

If you ventured to plant corn, that “reaching clear up to 
the sky” appearance will be much in evidence. Cobs will 
have formed and the local raccoons will be chomping at the 
bit waiting for your corn to mature. The only real defeat in 
our “Garden of Eatin’” was brought about by ravenous 
raccoons. They proved to be our Nemesis. No more com in 
our garden; it’s too much of a one-sided affair! 

During August the first ripe tomatoes will stand out like 
gems of perfection waiting to garnish your camp’s table 
along with armfuls of lettuce, radishes, onions, cucumbers 
and carrots. And, once the potato plants have turned brown, 
wilted and collapsed, be assured there’s a treasure-trove of 
new potatoes buried beneath each plant. Dig them up care¬ 
fully using a four-pronged potato fork starting well away 
from the point where the main stems enter the ground in 
order to avoid slicing or piercing the new potatoes. Be 
thorough when digging and you’ll find anywhere from four 
to ten gleaming “nuggets”, depending upon the soil, under 
each plant. 

During the early stages of creating your garden perhaps 
you were fortunate to have a benevolent market gardener, 
or other country folk present you with a healthy root or 
two of rhubarb to set aside in one little corner of your 
garden; if so, by now you will have savoured this delectable 
fruit several times. This root requires very little attention 
once it is given a fertile start, but don’t toss the leaves into 
the pot when stewing as they’re poisonous. It is a perennial 
and will more than likely outlive us all. It is wise to position 
perennial plants such as rhubarb, asparagus, horseradish, 
mint, raspberry cane and the like to one side of your garden, 
where they can remain without interfering with annual 
preparations. 

Sweet herbs lend dignity to a garden as well as to give a 
pleasant flavour to many foods. They require very little 
space to grow but be sure there’s plenty of sun for them. 


regular watering and good drainage. Savoury; sage; thyme; 
basil; parsley; chives; rosemary; oregano; chervil; and fennel 
to name a few, are all in the herb family. Most can be pur¬ 
chased in boxed plant form to facilitate an early start. Some 
are tough perennials, some only annuals, and a few are seed 
producers (biennials) every other year. Herbs should be cut 
when in bloom, tied in small bunches, and hung up to dry; 
they may be stored in this state, or when quite dry, rubbed 
with the hands to a coarse powder and contained in bottles 
for culinary use. 

We dared to plant celery and cantaloupe in our camp 
garden, albeit we are 160 miles northeast of Toronto. The 
celery, crisp and green was a delectable supplement to the 
homemade soup served from our kitchen. The cantaloupe, 
requiring a much longer growing period, fell victim to an 
early September frost. However, the turnips and parsnips 
seemed immune to frost and were a resounding success. 

We spent a total of $75.10 during the spring of 1974 to 
furnish plants and seed for our camp garden. The labour 
involved we charged to a wonderful experience in the out- 
of-doors. But the fruits of our labour returned far more 
than we could ever have anticipated at the time we seized 
upon the whole idea to develop a camp garden, for, during 
the summer and part of the fall we harvested: a seven weeks’ 
supply of lettuce for the whole camp (approximately 135 
at that time); three individual feeds of green and yellow 
beans for everybody; 2Vi bushels of potatoes (the likes of 
which would put the Irish to shame); 2 bushels of pepper 
squash; 1 Vi bushels of full-grown cucumbers, as well as one 
6-quart basket of gherkins; 4 bushels of tomatoes, not 
including the number of green ones we had to abandon; 
3 bushels hubbard squash; 3 bushels green cabbage; Vi bushel 
red cabbage; 11 quarts sweet green peppers, and a good 
quantity of carrots, beets, parsnips, turnips, onions, broccoli, 
Brussel sprouts, some rhubarb and kohlrabi. We were also 
successful in raising many sweet herbs in addition to a 
cluster of seven-foot tall sunflowers that produced an abun¬ 
dance of seeds. 

We’re soon going to try our hand at growing cultured 
raspberries. The wild ones grow so well in our area we think 
we might do even better with a cultured variety. They can 
be staked like grapes in a vineyard needing very little 
attention except pruning every year. There’s also a new 
variety of strawberry plants available that will grow to a 
considerable height, as well as producing berries through 
until the frost lays low the plant. The following spring it 
rallies from its dormant state to produce again. Imagine 
having raspberries and strawberries on your tables at camp! 

Be venturesome with your garden by experimenting on 
your own. This way you can actually test the capabilities of 
every nook and cranny of your plot. Learn its characteristics. 
Is it too rich for one species yet just fine for another? Don’t 
try to run the whole gamut before you’ve learned the tune. 
Remember, too, a composite layout will give you a much 
better variety to savour. 

No garden in the world would be complete without 
flowers. Form a raised earthen bed in the centre of your 
garden any shape or size. Plant tall flowers in the centre if 
you like, expanding towards the outer edges, or circles, 
using flowers that will compliment each other as they 
bloom in their fine array. Market gardeners and other supply 
houses usually colour code flowers so that you can deter¬ 
mine in advance just what your flower bed will be like. 
Perhaps you’ll want some gladiola as a centrepiece, or calla 


9 



lily followed by snapdragons, asters, begonia or geraniums, 
etc. Around the outer areas, after you’ve collected a few 
stones to add a little finery, plant some sweet alyssum or 
forget-me-nots. Be imaginative! How about a rose arbor 
just inside the garden gate? 

Good luck! and may your green thumb hang in there. 

LE JARDIN POTAGER Comment selectionner un endroit 
propice, preparer le terrain, ensemencer, transplanter et 
cultiver votre jardin . . . toules ces choses sont expliquees 
de sorte que meme les amateurs peuvent produire une 
recolte abondante. 


Never yet was a springtime , 

Late though lingered the snow, 

That the sap stirred not at the whisper 
Of the south wind, soft and low; 

Never yet was the springtime 
When the buds forgot to grow. 

Margaret Sangster 


—— 3fn jftlemoriam 

A TRIBUTE TO LORNE BROWN 

“The teacher who walks in the shadow of the temple , 
among his followers , gives not of his wisdom but 
rather of his faith and his lovingness. 

If he is indeed wise he does not bid you enter 
the house of his wisdom , but rather leads you to 
the threshold of your own mind. ” 

-K. Gibran 


Lome was such a 
teacher, one who lived 
beside the western sea 
at the foot of the 
mountains or on the 
high plateau in their 
midst. 

It was natural for 
him to use such a rich 
environment for his 
teaching and to pro¬ 
vide learning experi¬ 
ences for the many 
thousands of people 
with whom he came 
in contact in the 
YMCA and its camps; the elementary schools, the 
teacher training college and later in the faculty of educa¬ 
tion — U.B.C., in his own private camp and through 
being an elected member of the Vancouver Parks and 
Recreation Board. 

Lome was a physical educator, nationally and inter¬ 
nationally known, President of the Canadian Association 
for Health, Physical Education and Recreation (1955-57). 
His vision and philosophy of play, recreation and physical 
activity put forward in each province during the cross 
country trip he made leading to the CAHPER Conven¬ 
tion in Halifax, 1957 set the pattern for CAHPER’s 
coming of age. 

Lome Brown was opinionated, as any good leader is, 
but he was also modest about it. His insights into how 
people learn and what influences are available to good 
teachers to help them learn, made him a great teacher. 
His love of life especially of children, was passed on to 
others. He resisted the lure of the many fads which 
arose during his lifetime, insisting that the basic learnings 
be presented to all in the schools and the community. 
Leadership and teacher education provided the means of 
passing on his enthusiasms and vision. 


We in camping have and will benefit most from 
Lome Brown’s legacy to our country. It began when he 
was a youth in the Y camps where he learned to recog¬ 
nize the wonders of the living world and continued to 
the end of his days. He put the feet of thousands on the 
beginnings of trails leading to high adventure and fun; 
he helped people acquire the knowledge and skills 
necessary to meet the challenges of a Whistler Mt. ski 
run, probe the wilderness white-water rivers, and be 
happy and at home on a campsite in an unknown valley. 
Perhaps most of all, he helped people, young or old, to 
be at home with one another, respecting differences. 

Lome didn’t believe in Santa Claus - not for anyone. 
Perhaps so because he was one who showered upon us 
his abundant affection and love, gifts of head and hand 
and his unending enthusiasms. Rather it was strong 
belief that each of us should be happy, modest, con¬ 
fident, self-reliant individuals depending on no crutches 
of any kind. 

May and the other members of the family will miss 
him no end, and we will too. But like them, we will 
have him alive in our memories as we come to new vistas 
and experiences along the many trails upon which he 
put our feet. And when the going is roughest, his broad 
smile and warm chuckle will come to mind — making us 
laugh at ourselves. 

Camping and the C.C.A., especially, have received 
another great legacy from Lome Brown, a quiet, deter¬ 
mined leader and visionary teacher of people. 

He knew the earth from touch 
He reached for the sky from high places 
He felt the force of wind on the sea 
He stood straight and tall in the sun 
And among us and a myriad of others 
he was our friend. 

C.R. “Blackie” Blackstock 



10 








M jfHemoriam 


A TRIBUTE TO ALEX PEEPRE 

“ Farewell , Friend. Have a good trip. ” 


Little white horses 
prance toward the 
shore, gently slurping 
against the jetty. We 
clamber into our laden 
craft and peer toward 
the distant shrouded 
shore, re-echoing our 
cries of ‘bon voyage’. 
The greying, lithe, alert 
young man of fifty- 
eight years turns away 
to shepherd another 
section of his flock to 
the other departure 
point, where he joins the departing group, with a soaring 
spirit and unsatiated thirst for a renewed acquaintance 
with the wilderness. Despite the tentative zig zag course, 
his infectious boyish enthusiasm creeps among his young 
charges. The canoe grates upon the shore to be pulled 
out, then up and over and away he goes not to be out¬ 
done by a twenty year old, two hundred pound novice. 

In the peace of the evening, beneath the canopy of 
twinkling lights, he communicates with Mother Nature 
yodelling his way into the memories and hearts of his 
young students and friends. This man had proudly worn 
his country’s colours. His hope to represent it in the 
combined ski event, in the Garmisch-Partenkirken Winter 
Olympics of 1936, was dashed at the last minute. Cham¬ 
pion of Estonia and the Baltic countries, he visited 
Finland for the first World Championships. The spirit of 
freedom soared, like his body from the ski hill, and was 
transmitted to his summer campers. Through troubled 
times, he journeyed from one distinguished career to 
another in Sweden. Here he worked as 'Jack of All 
Trades’ until he assumed the post of Sports Director for 
the city of Stockholm, somehow always contriving to be 
free for summer camps for children. Another great love 
flourished. Orienteering, only surpassed by the love of a 
growing family. 

In 1950 he arrived in this great country to begin a 
third career, probably the most distinguished dishwasher 
Camp Pinecrest ever had. His long association with the 
‘Y’ and the Canadian Camping scene began. The next 
year found him directing the waterfront, followed by a 
five year stint as Director of Camp Nagiwa, which he 
developed for the Guelph ‘Y\ No menial task offended 
him, service was his watchword. On to Camp Beausoleil 
and Camp On-Da-Da-Waks. He extended camping to a 


pioneering and wilderness adventure, guiding many 
young people in two weeks of wilderness living. Others 
inspired by his leadership began their own programs. In 
between summers he showed his versatility in other 
aspects of leisure time activities. 

Leida shared his love and his work. Their children 
Mari, Mall and Juri grew up acquiring the same great 
respect for life and service. He returned to Pinecrest for 
seven more years but also joined the faculty of what was 
to become the University of Guelph. In winter many 
students captured his love for skiing and in spring for 
Orienteering. He fathered the latter in North America 
and proudly nursed it to its current state of popularity. 
He was Ontario Veteran Champion. Leida can’t recall if 
he was Canadian Champion; it isn’t important anyway, 
participation was the reward. 

Many of you knew him long and well. You are to be 
envied for that. His life work now rests as far afield as 
Nigeria, Hong Kong and Australia where former students 
now reside. His one regret that more Canadians did not 
share and emulate his undying enthusiasm is shared by 
many of us. His daily example put most of us to shame. 
A hard taskmaster to himself, kind and generous to 
others, memories flood back. Canoe orienteering in the 
pouring rain at Kandalore; driftwood magically assuming 
new forms under his expert hand; the morning swim; a 
last campfire; a firm handshake and clear blue eyes. 

This year the canoes pushed off but he remained at 
the dock. Students discovered the tranquility of slate 
gray lakes, heard the mournful cry of the loon, trembled 
as bears, disguised as raccoons, rattled the pots and pans, 
listened to an echoing cry to the setting sun, sat and 
discovered hidden depths. These things are still there 
to be experienced. 

Canada opened its doors to this $on of foreign parts. 
Perceptive men in the ‘Y’ helped him learn a new 
language and get established. He flourished and paid his 
debt tenfold. His passing was premature and for this we 
must be sad, but not for long, for his spirit is still 
amongst us and we must celebrate its presence. His 
memory is recorded in many places, moose antlers here, 
a chapel there, a man-made ski hill, various trails and 
numerous hand-made decorative mementoes. They all 
symbolize ‘Sass’ Peepre, father of Orienteering, colossus 
among campers. I am a better man for knowing him and 
Canada, a better place. 

Alex ‘Sass’ Peepre died on January 3rd 1976, aged 60. 

‘Farewell, Friend. Have a good trip.’ 

-Colin C. Kelly 



11 








Comment se preparer a 
une expedition en canot 
dans le Grand Nord Canadien 

—par Jacques Grenier, Ph.D. 

University of Ottawa 


Le 14 juillet 1975, quatre aventuriers de Quebec, ages de 
19 a 21 ans, quittent Schefferville au Quebec, dans deux 
canots de toile, en direction de Fort Chimo via les rivieres 
au Sable, Kaniapiskau, et Kaksoak. Vingt jours plus tard, ils 
arriventaux chutes du Granite ou ils accostent et debarquent 
pour examiner le sentier de portage et admirer ce majestueux 
chef-d’oeuvre de la nature. Soudain les quatre voient leurs 
canots s’engouffrer dans les chutes et devront recuperer 
au-bas de ces dernieres ce qui leur restait d’equipement. Par 
chance, ils trouvent a proximite de l'endroit de leur malheur 
une chaloupe du Ministere des Richesses Naturelles du 
Quebec. Ils l’empruntent pour continuer leur periple, leurs 
canots etant totalement dechiquetes. Comble de malheur, 
quelques milles plus loin, un rapide non-indique sur leur 
carte les precipite tous a l’eau. Trois des compagnons 
rejoignent la rive; le quatrieme, age de 19 ans, y laisse sa vie. 
On le repechera 10 jours plus tard a l’entree du lac Cam¬ 
brian, a pres d’un mille du lieu de la tragedie. 

A la mi-juin 1975, le couple Louis et Nicole Baril de 
Varennes, Quebec, quittent eux aussi Schefferville en direc¬ 
tion de Fort Chimo via la riviere Swampy Bay. Trois mois 
plus tard, les plusgrandes recherches jamais effectuees dans 
le Nord du Quebec sont impuissantes a retrouver la jeune 
femme; quant a son mari, il s’etait noye plusieurs jours 
auparavant. 

De telles tragedies sont de plus en plus frequentes dans 
le nord de notre immense pays ou un nombre grandissant 
de personnes s’aventurent, souvent sans preparation ni 
experience suffisantes. Elies croient retrouver dans ces 
regions sauvages eloignees les memes defis auxquels elles 
etaient habituees dans les lacs ou les rivieres avoisinants les 
centres urbains. Est-il bon cependant de mentionner ici que 
la temperature de l’eau dans ce coin sous-artique de notre 
continent depasse rarement 6°C (45°F), que les rapides 
indiques sur les cartes sont souvent des chutes, que les 
mouches noires et les maringouins sont si denses qu’il est 
parfois difficile de respirer ou d’ouvrir la bouche sans en 
avaler, que les conditions atmospheriques changent du but 
en blanc en moins d’une heure,qu’une quelconque blessure 
peut vous placer dans une situation tres precaire parce que 
les secours sont difficilement accessibles, et que ... les 
telephones ne se rencontrent pas a chaque tournant de 
riviere. 

Une question se pose done: comment se fait-il qu’il y ait 
des groupes qui sortent traumatises ou meme ne reviennent 
jamais de telles expeditions, alors que d’autres reussissent a 
surmonter facilement tous les obstacles? Voici done quel¬ 
ques conseils pratiques qui faciliteront le succes de futures 
expeditions en canot dans le grand nord canadien. Les 
cauchemars et les drames se transformeront alors en aven- 


ture plaisante remplie de decouvertes, de connaissance de 
soi et depreciation de notre terre vierge. 

Preparation a long tenne: 

Une expedition de cette envergure ne se decide pas la 
veille du depart ni meme 15 jours avant. Puisque plusieurs 
aspects doivent etre considers, il est essentiel de prevoir, 
au minimum, un an et demi de preparation soignee et 
adequate. 

Le choix des compagnons de voyage, base sur Page, la 
sante, et 1’experience de chacun, constitue la premiere 
decision a prendre. Au chapitre de l’experience, chaque 
membre doit avoir a son credit un minimum de 800 a 1.000 
milles de canotage realises dans des situations tres variees 
lui assurant ainsi une technique eprouvee dans le canot- 
camping. Egalement, chacun, bien qualifie en natation, en 
secourisme et en securite aquatique, et capable d’analyser 
d’un coup d’oeil sur et precis le degre de difficulty d’un 
rapide sera en mesure de prevenir ou de se tirer d’affaire 
dans les situations dangereuses. De plus, des expeditions 
realisees anterieurement avec la majorite des membres du 
groupe pennettront d’etablir les forces et les faiblesses de 
l’equipe. 

Entreprendre une telle expedition avec un seul canot 
comporte de tres grands risques. Une aventure en canot 
dans le nord du pays devrait etre composee de six a huit 
individus et de trois a quatre embarcations. Un groupe de 
plus de huit se caracterise par Fencombrement, tant dans le 
fonctionnement de l’equipe que dans la prise de decision. 

Vient ensuite le choix du parcours fait a l’aide de cartes 
topographiques l:50,000 e et 1:250,000 e . (Un pouce sur la 
carte represente 50,000 et 250,000 pouces sur le terrain ou 
encore 1,389 et 6,945 verges.) Ces cartes sont mises a jour 
par la Division des Releves et de la Cartographic et vendues 



Les rapides se suivent mais ne se ressemblent pas. 


12 


au Bureau de distribution des cartes, Ministere de TEnergie, 
des Mines et des Resources, Ottawa. Elies sont disponibles 
presque partout au Canada et fournissent une multitude de 
details concernant les rivieres, rapides, chutes, marais, por¬ 
tages, elevations de terrain, et declinaisons magnetiques. 

Une fois le choix du parcours et des compagnons de 
voyage etabli, il est indispensable que chacun s’acquitte de 
certaines responsabilites. Ces taches tres variees necessitent 
un certain temps de preparation. Les futurs voyageurs 
devront: s’informer sur le meilleur type de canots et d’avi- 
rons pour entreprendre le voyage; obtenir du sous-ministre 
du Tourisme, de la Chasse et de la Peche de la Province de 
Quebec la permission ecrite pour voyager au nord du 52 e 
parallele; ramasser toutes les informations sur les conditions 
meteorologiques et sur les marees, informations disponibles 
au Service Hydrographique du Canada, Direction Generate 
des Sciences de la Mer, Ministere de TEnvironnement, 
Ottawa; s’enquerir des moyens, et des couts de transport de 
Tequipement et des passagers et des horaires pour Taller et 
le retour; rechercher la documentation pertinente sur la 
nourriture et preparer un menu preliminaire; etablir et 
administrer les finances de Tequipe et fixer la part que 
chacun versera pour participer a Texpedition; se renseigner 
sur Tequipement de secourset sur Tequipement collectif de 
camping disponibles; rechercher toute documentation his- 
torique et culturelle reliee a la region visitee, sur la faune, 
la flore, et les aspects geographiques d’interets majeurs. 

A ce stage-ci de la planification, il est important de pre- 
ciser le moment de l’annee ou se fera Texpedition ainsi que 
sa duree approximative. Rencontrer d’autres aventuriers 
ayant deja fait des expeditions similaires, visionner leurs 
diapositives et discuter avec eux de leurs experiences pro- 
curent egalement un supplement d’informations essentielles 
a toute preparation serieuse. 

Enfin, un bon programme de conditionnement physique 
s’avere necessaire pour tous les participants car, question 
securite, chacun possedera une reserve d’energie pour les cas 
d’urgence et les moments difficiles, et, question plaisir, 
chacun sera moins fatigue et par consequent plus enthou- 
siaste. Ceci constitue une autre responsabilite individuelle 
vis-a-vis les autres membres de Tequipe. 

Preparation a court terme 

S’il est necessaire de prendre en consideration une myriade 
de details longtemps avant le depart, il est imperatif aussi 
de s’appliquer aux preparatifs a court terme, preparatifs 
s’echelonnant sur une periode de deux a six mois avant le 
debut de Texpedition. 

D’abord l’equipement de secours. Un poste radio, 
emetteur-recepteur constitue un equipement ideal pour tout 
genre d’expedition. Cependant, le poids d’environ 40 livres 
et le volume qu’occupe un tel equipement le rend a peu 
pres inadequat. Par contre, il est possible de se procurer du 
Ministere des Transports du Quebec un appareil special de 
secours d’une livre et demie fonctionnant a piles, d’une 
puissance de 150 milles de rayon et syntonise sur la fre¬ 
quence de secours des avions (121.5 megacycles). En plus 
de cet appareil, chaque equipe transporter une demi- 
douzaine de fusees eclairantes facilitant ainsi la localisation 
de I’emplacement du haut des airs dans des cas d'urgence. 

Une trousse de premiers soins complete est a prevoir, 
allant du simple diachylon aux capsules de morphine et 
d’adrenaline et sans oublier d’y inclure un manuel du 
soigneur. Il est preferable que cette trousse d’urgence soit 
distribute egalement dans deux ou trois havresacs. Ainsi la 



Un reve enfin realise: coucher senl sur la sommet d’une montagne. 
A dream finally came true: Claude slept alone on the top of the 
mountain. 


possibility d’utilisation d’une autre trousse de premiers soins 
existe encore si par malchance un des sacs se perdait. 

Il est important ici de preciser que tous ces equipements 
de secours de meme que certains effets personnels, tel le sac 
de couchage, doivent etre ranges dans des sacs a Tepreuve 
de l’eau. Il existe sur le marche differents produits manu¬ 
factures qui permettent de garder au sec tout equipement 
juge necessaire au confort et a la survie de chacun. 

Chaque canot doit etre muni d’un aviron supplementaire 
pouvant etre sorti rapidement au cas ou Ton des avirons 
reguliers se brise. De plus chaque equipage doit posseder 
une boussole et en connaitre parfaitement son utilisation. 
Enfin, tout groupe d’expedition doit se munir de deux series 
de cartes topographiques de l:50,000 e et d’une serie de 
l:250,000 e du parcours projette. Par simple mesure de 
precaution, comme dans le cas de la trousse de premiers 
soins, chaque serie de cartes sera distribute parmi les 
membres du groupe. 

Durant cette periode preparatoire intensive, tout le 
materiel de camping doit etre rassemble. Des canots d’alu- 
minum de 17 ou 18 pieds de long avec quilles adaptees pour 
la riviere et les rapides auront priorite sur les canots de toile 
ou de fibre de verre. Des avirons “voyageurs” ou “queues 
de loutre” seront choisis de preference aux avirons a pale 
de 10 ou 12 pouces de largeur, ces dernieres exigeant beau- 
coup trop d'efforts des canotiers. De meme des havresacs a 
canot avec courroies de portage seront preferes a ceux 
montes sur un cadre surtout utilises pour la marche. Chaque 
participant se procurera une veste de securite qu’il portera 
pour la traversee de grands lacs, la descente de rapides et a 
tout autre moment juge opportun. Quant aux tentes, cer¬ 
tains prefereront celles plus legeres en nylon, d’autres celles 
en coton egyptien, un peu plus lourdes. Que les unes ou les 
autres soient choisies, il est important de s’assurer de leur 
etancheite complete. Un plancher impermeable, une porte 
moustiquaire et des matelas pneumatiques rehausseront le 
confort de chaque nuit passee sous la tente. Enfin, quelques 
Cannes a peche telescopiques que Ton aura soin d’attacher 
aux barres d’ecartement des canots seront un atout: Les 
prises permettront de varier le menu quotidien. 

Parlant nourriture, chaque equipe se fera, avant le depart, 
un menu qui tiendra compte du nombre approximate de 
jours que durera le voyage et achetera les provisions neces- 
saires, plus une marge de securite. Pour ce genre d’expedi¬ 
tion, il est fortement recommande de se procurer de la 


13 


nourriture de type deshydrate seche a froid, meme si cela 
represente des depenses additionnelles. Cette nourriture, 
tres legere, tres variee, et a l’epreuve de Peau dans son 
emballage individuel en plastique scelle hermetiquement, se 
conserve indefiniment et contient toutes les calories, vita- 
mines, hydrocarbures et proteines indispensables a une 
diete equilibree. Elle est disponible chez les entreprises 
specialises en articles de camping et dans un grand nombre 
de supermarches. Les boites de conserve sont a eviter, tant 
a cause de leur pesanteur et de leur encombrement que par 
respect pour l’environnement. 

Parmi l’equipement personnel que chacun possedera, 
nous trouverons plusieurs paires de bas de laine, des bottes 
de caoutchouc, deux bons gilets de laine,ainsi qu’un anorak 
ou une veste de ski avec mitaines et tuques puisque la tem¬ 
perature oscille entre 2° et 16°C (35° et 60°F), meme en 
plein mois de juillet. Des vetements impermeables (veste et 
pantalons) et un sac de couchage en duvet completeront 
Pequipement essentiel. 

II n’estpas tout d’accumuler de Pequipement mais encore 
faut-il l’eprouver avant le depart lors d’une ou de plusieurs 
mini-expeditions d’une duree de deux a quatre jours. 

Cesessais feront constaterla valeur et Putilite de Pequipe¬ 
ment et Phabilete technique des canotiers dans des circon- 
stances similaires a celles anticipees. Si le materiel ne s’avere 
pas satisfaisant, certains ajustements pourront se faire. De 
meme, ces experiences personnelles permettront aux equi- 
piers de reconnaitre leurs faiblesses. Des stages ou cliniques 
de perfectionnement dispenses chaque ete par plusieurs 
organismes provinciaux et federaux specialises dans le 
domaine combleront alors les lacunes. 

Preparation immediate 

La Gendarmerie Royale du Canada, la police locale, et 
les bases d’avions et d’hydravions qui survolent la region 
seront informeesquelques jours avant le depart ou la journee 
meme du debut de Pexpedition, de l’itineraire, des noms 
des participants et du temps approximatif prevu. 

II serait sage d’avertir parents ou amis de faire effectuer 
des recherches si Pequipe n’a pas donne signe de vie a une 
date pre-determinee. 

Enfin, une fois tendu a destination, il est convenable 
d’avertir les autorites, parents ou amis, du succes de 
Pexpedition. 

En conclusion 

Une telle expedition n’est pas une course contre la 
montre. II faut y mettre le temps, aussi bien dans la pre¬ 
paration que dans l’execution. Dans ce coin de pays, une 



Une grande dexterite est rcquise dans de pareils moments. 


journee de canotage et de portage ne devrait jamais se pro- 
longer au-dela de 17.00 heures afin de permettre a chacun 
de se reposer, de recuperer et de jouir du moment present. 
II est egalement essentiel de bien manger a tous les repas, de 
remplir ses nuits de huit a dix heures de sommeil, de 
prendre a tous les quatre ou cinq jours une journee com¬ 
plete de repos et de detente, et d’intercaller dans sa journee 
de canotage, a intervalles reguliers, des repos d’une quinzaine 
de minutes. 

Une malchance ou un incident dans un environnement 
urbain peut s’averer fatal dans le grand nord canadien ou les 
secours sont lents et difficiles a obtenir. Chacun se doit de 
redoubler de prudence. 11 ne faut pas lutter contre les 
vents, les marees, les rapides, mais plutot apprendre a re¬ 
specter la nature et ses elements. 

Pour plusieurs, ce genre d’expedition constitue un retour 
aux sources qui permet de mieux connaitre l’histoire de 
son pays, de sympathiser avec les premiers explorateurs et 
decouvreurs, d’imaginer les passages suivis par les premiers 
voyageurs et trappeurs, de “decouvrir” indienset esquimaux, 
de constater les conditions sociales des populations du Nord, 
d’apprecier l’immensite sauvage de notre pays et l’esthe- 
tique d’une nature encore vierge que chacun aime trouver 
inalteree et que chacun devrait s’efforcer de laisser intacte 
au moins par respect pour les autres qui utiliseront un jour 
le meme chemin. 


/WSAAAAAAAA/WVN 


More and more people are travelling by canoe in the 
northern parts of our country and more and more tragedies 
occur because of a lack of preparation for such expeditions. 

Long term preparation: this can start as far away as 18 
months before the beginning of the trip: selection of the 
participants; choice of routes; gathering of information on 
the appropriate types of canoes and paddles, meteorologic 
conditions, costs of individuals and material transportation 
if necessary (bus, train, airplane), type of food to bring 
along, safety equipment available; obtain a written govern¬ 
mental permit to travel north of the 52nd or the 60th 
parallel; open up a bank account; select the best time of the 
year to start the expedition; development of a good fitness 
program for each participant, etc. 

Short term preparation usually takes place two to six 
months prior to the beginning of the trip and involves the 
gathering of safety and first-aid equipment, maps and com¬ 
passes, food, personal belongings, and all the camping gear 
including canoes, paddles, safety jackets, tents and fishing 
rods. Also important during that preparation period is the 
testing of all the material: this can be done in a mini¬ 
expedition eight to ten weeks before the real expedition. 

Immediate preparation: this is done a few days or a few 
hours before the starting of the expedition. It is extremely 
important to notify the highest authorities in the area 
(R.C.M.P., local police, air-bases, etc.) of the intention of 
the group and to indicate the projected route, the number 
and names of the participants, and the approximate time 
needed to complete the trip. 

If all these factors and several others are taken into 
consideration while preparing for a canoe trip in northern 
country, there is a good chance that the expedition will be 
a success rather than a tragedy. 


14 




cA cpiace of Quiet 


-by W.E. (Ted) Yard 

Director , Camp Hollyburn 


We spent a memorable hour one evening last fall watch¬ 
ing a pair of beavers at work in a small bay at the west end 
of our lake. At first they seemed a bit wary of these two 
humans sitting in full view on the rock peninsula. Soon, 
there developed quite a “waterfront show” with fancy 
diving, serene cruising, brief ducking, and much tail slapping. 
We were fascinated, but we stayed still and quiet. Gradually 
they became bolder, and seemed to be playing a game of 
“double-dare” as first one and then the other would cruise 
directly towards us, coming eventually within fifteen or 
twenty feet, then flipping up and over! Finally after more 
than half an hour one of these “showmen” slipped serenely 
into shore about sixty feet along the bay and emerging from 
the lake, began to chew away at the exposed roots of a 
young maple tree. We were so engrossed with this fellow’s 
industry that we completely lost track of his mate until a 
resounding crack lifted us right off our rock seat! Number 
two beaver had circled the point, surfaced behind us, and 
probably some little tell-tale gesture had given us away . . . 
the show was over! It had been over an hour of stillness, of 
silence, of pantomime. An hour to cherish. One of those 
brief but priceless opportunities to become better acquainted 
with our woodland friends. How fortunate we are to have 
such possibilities for a place of quiet! 

A comment made by the Rt. Rev. Wilbur Howard at a 
meeting of camp people, reminded me of a visit to the 
United Nations some years ago. There too, in that massive 
complex on the East River in Manhattan, teeming with 
persons of every country and culture, people had found the 
need for a “place of quiet”. It is a small room just off the 
beaten track, and away from the hurly-burly. Simple cane 
benches are the only furnishings and one shaft of light from 
the ceiling shines on a large block of iron ore in the centre 
of the room to provide the only illumination. The meaning 
of this place is perhaps best conveyed in the words of Dag 
Hammarskjold, the late Secretary General of the United 
Nations, as he dedicated the room: 

“We all have within us a centre of stillness surrounded 
by silence. . . This house . . . should have one room 
dedicated to silence in the outward sense and stillness 
in the inner sense. It has been the aim to create in this 
small room a place where the doors may be open to 
the infinite lands of thought and prayer. 

People of many faiths will meet here, and for that 
reason none of the symbols to which we are accus¬ 
tomed in our meditation could be used. 

However, there are simple things which speak to us all 
with the same language. We have sought for such 
things and we have found them in the shaft of light 
striking the shimmering surface of solid rock. So, in 


the middle of the room we see a symbol of how, 
daily, the light of the skies gives life to the earth on 
which we stand, a symbol to many of us of how the 

light of the spirit gives light to the matter.The 

stone in the middle of the room reminds us also of 
the firm and permanent in a world of movement and 
change. The block of iron ore has the weight and 
solidity of the everlasting. It is a reminder of that 
corner stone of endurance and faith on which all 
human endeavour must be based. . . . 

. . . There is an ancient saying that the sense of a 
vessel is not in its shell but in the void. So it is with 
this room. It is for those who come here to fill the 
void with what they find in their centre of stillness.” 

How fortunate we are in organized camping! We seldom 
need to construct a place of quiet. But, in our programs and 
in our sites, is it possible that we sometimes fail to recognize 
that all persons do indeed have within them “a centre of 
stillness surrounded by silence”? 

Many years ago, in a different camp setting, I recall the 
evening gatherings of campers and staff on a picturesque 
point of land. These quiet times facilitated a kind of com¬ 
munication seldom achieved during the typically happy and 
somewhat boisterous activity day. Words were few when 
we met “on the point”, and those used conveyed thoughts 
in keeping with the tranquility of the place. They were 
words often remembered because of the special harmony 
within that diverse group in a special setting of great beauty, 
stillness and quiet. 

In later years powerboats loaded with young cottagers 
would cruise the area, sometimes stopping completely to 



Photo courtesy Camp Wahcahmie 


15 



pass remarks about the assembly on the point; sometimes 
calling out some noisy comment; always disturbing. After 
fifty years of use by a children’s camp, the point has lost 
little of its beauty, but, because of its vulnerability to 
intruders, it is no longer the special place for “quiet times”. 
Yet, such places are surely absolute necessities in any com¬ 
munity where we would live the full life. In our mechanical 
and electronic world, complete with traffic snarls and adver¬ 
tising jingles, how very few are the opportunities for genuine 
stillness and quiet! 

Yes, how fortunate we are in organized camping! If only 
we could see, in their fullest perspective, all the blessings of 
the natural environment in which our camp communities 
flourish. Dag Hammarskjold could see great significance in 
one beam of light, one block of stone, one chunk of iron 
ore. How much more we have to deal with in our everyday 
out-of-doors experiences. 

I remember an off-quoted verse: 

“And Nature the old nurse, took each one 
upon her knee 

Saying, “Here, my child is a storybook, thy Father has 
written for thee". 

“Come, wander with me," she said, “through regions 
yet untrod, 

And read what is yet unread, in the manuscript 
of God." 


Is it possible to opt out of routine to listen for the early-bird 
songs on a very special morning? Is it wasting time to count 
the “shooting stars” in an August sky? 

If we in organized camping really are educators, perhaps 
our ultimate objective is that of enabling . . . enabling each 
person to fill any void one may experience with what one 
may find in that centre of stillness. . . 

A child is afraid of the water. Another is very much 
afraid of the dark. We do not usually try to overcome these 
simply by having one child wear a lifejacket and by having 
the other in bed before dark. Rather, we have long ago come 
to recognize that each must eventually solve the problem 
with often unrecognized inner personal resources. I suspect 
that many of us feel that some of these resources are 
developed through robust, active, challenging program; 
through planning cooperatively for some very special event; 
through the additional self-confidence of acquiring some of 
the so-called “primitive” skills. 

Surely, however, a very important ingredient of this 
educational process must be the opportunity for a variety 
of experiences in quiet places with one’s peers, with one’s 
leaders,.. . with one’s self. 

Hopefully we will come to realize that “the pause that 
refreshes” is not copyrighted, but rather it represents one 
of the great resources available to us as we play our part in 
enabling young people to discover their world. 


. . . And I sometimes wonder whether we really feel we 
have time for such things. Perhaps the active camp day from 
morning dip to evening stunt night is so full of fun, good 
times, physical activity and “challenge” that we’re content 
enough to see a camper go home “happy”. “Watch the 
camper who wants to be alone” a counsellor is sometimes 
advised . . . “keep him active so he won’t get homesick!” 
Do we plan lots of strolls that are not “races” or “contests”? 


UN COIN DE SILENCE - Un directeur de camp donne ses 
arguments en faveur d’un “coin de silence”. II se demande 
si, dans nos programmes, sur le site de notre camp, nous 
n’oublions par parfois que dans chaque personne il y a une 
zone de silence. Graphiquement il explique le sens et le 
besoin du “coin de silence” qui existe dans I ’edifice des 
Nations-Unies et il cite les paroles de Dag Hammarskjold 
lors de (’inauguration de cette salle. 


iV\:VVVVVV-V VVV" 


lVVAVVVV 




<Xvvvvs y << Cvvv vvvvvvvs vvvvvvvvvvxV^ 



OUR "VANGUARD" STYLE 
With Draining and Stacking Features 


ORDER NOW FOR BETTER 
ASSORTMENT 

WILL HOLD FOR CAMP OPENING 
LIMITED SUPPLY 

Pre-Camptime Offer of 
Substandards at Generous 
Discounts 

Items not Illustrated: 

• Vegetable Bowl 

• Platter 

• Pitcher 

• Tumbler 

• Creamer and Sugar 

• Salad Servers 

• Jam or Sugar Pot 

• Salt and Peppers 

• Soup Plate 
e Butter Dish and 

Cover 

• Gravy Boat 

Colours: Yellow, 
Green, Coral, Blue 

375 Danforth Road, 
Scarborough, Ont. 

698-2545 






THE 

OUTDOORS « 
MAN 

—by Larry R. Johnston 



Anthropomorphism, the ascription of human characteris¬ 
tics to other beings or things, including wildlife, has been 
foisted upon us by Walt Disney, Tolkien, Beatrix Potter, 
Antoine de Saint Exupery, A.A. Milne, Charles Kingsley 
and thousands of other imaginative and talented story 
tellers. The result is that we have been psychologically 
conditioned to love those creatures with the most human 
characteristics and hate those with the least human charac¬ 
teristics. Use of the words love and hate were not chosen at 
random. Children and adults don’t just “like” Winnie-The- 
Pooh, they love the pudgy little guy. 

Childish infatuation with certain birds and animals is not 
harmful and can probably be argued to be positively bene¬ 
ficial in terms of stimulating the imagination or opening the 
young mind to whatever idealogy the author wishes to 
promote. What is disturbing however, is the totally negative 
and unjust aspect of anthropomorphism - hate. Why on 
earth would you love penguins and hate bats? To put the 
question in a more contemporary context, why would you 
support the total preservation of penguins and care not one 
iota about the total extermination of the local bat popula¬ 
tion? Don’t think defensively, think positively. Bats are 
ugly little things. You wouldn’t miss them because they 
are nocturnal or crepuscular at best. You rarely see them 
now and you wouldn’t miss them if they were “removed”. 
They become tangled in women’s hair. They feel cool and 
rough to the touch. They have sharp little teeth, beady 
little eyes and strong, mouse-like tails. 

What logical reason can one employ to rationalize wild¬ 
life preferences? Why hate the shrew, the mole, the snake, 
the vulture, the spider, yet harbour indifference toward 
coyotes, crows, gallinules, muskrats, and starlings? Why 
should we care more about the well-being of parrots, 
penguins, panda bears, koala bears, chimpanzees, deer, etc.? 

That period of a child’sgreatest intellectual and emotional 
development happens to coincide with that target age group 
fantasy writers aim to influence. By age seven, children 
have determined which birds and animals to love, ignore or 
hate and which should be protected, ignored or destroyed. 
Incredible as it might seem, however, positive decisions are 
based on the creature’s rounded form, softness, two arms, 
two legs, vertical form, flat face, ears, human-like vocaliza¬ 
tions, colour, family grouping, and dozens of other human 
characteristics. 

Emotionalism can be a positive thing but respect is vital 
to meaningful conservation. Only with study can one learn 
to respect wild creatures for what they really are and how 
they play a vital part in the natural scheme of things. Only 
with this knowledge can one pass tally constructive judge¬ 
ment on wildlife conservation programs which can not 
pledge allegiance to anthropomorphism, the science Disney 
exploited to its most profitable limit. 



ensees 


21 MEMOS FROM YOUR LITTLE BROTHER . . . 
Taken from the Catholic Big Brothers of Detroit 

1. Don’t spoil me. I know quite well that I ought not to 
have all that I ask for. I’m only testing you. 

2. Don’t be afraid to be firm with me. I prefer it, it makes 
me feel more secure. 

3. Don’t let me form bad habits. I have to rely on you to 
detect them in the early stages. 

4. Don’t make me feel smaller than I am. It only makes 
me behave stupidly “big”. 

5. Don’t correct me in front of people if you can help it. 
I’ll take much more notice if you talk quietly with me 
in private. 

6. Don’t make me feel my mistakes are sins. It upsets my 
sense of values. 

7. Don’t protect me from consequences. I need to learn 
the painful way sometimes. 

8. Don’t be too upset when I say, “I hate you”. It isn’t 
you I hate, but your power to thwart over me. 

9. Don’t take too much notice of my small ailments. 
Sometimes they get me the attention I need. 

10. Don’t nag. If you do, I shall have to protect myself by 
appearing deaf. 

11. Don’t forget that I cannot explain myself as well as I 
like. This is why I’m not always very accurate. 

12. Don’t make rash promises. Remember that I feel badly 
let down when promises are broken. 

13. Don’t tax my honesty too much. I am easily frightened 
into telling lies. 

14. Don’t be inconsistent. That completely confuses me 
and makes me lose faith in you. 

15. Don’t tell me my fears are silly. They are terribly real 
and you can do much to reassure me if you try to 
understand. 

16. Don’t put me off when I ask questions. If you do, you 
will find that I stop asking and seek my information 
elsewhere. 

17. Don’t ever suggest that you are perfect or infallible. It 
gives me too great a shock when I discover that you 
are neither. 

18. Don’t ever think it is beneath your dignity to apologize 
to me. An honest apology makes me feel surprisingly 
warm toward you. 

19. Don’t forget how quickly I am growing up. It must be 
very difficult to keep pace with me, but please try. 

20. Don’t forget l love experimenting. I could not get on 
without it, so please put up with it. 

21. Don’t forget that I can’t thrive without lots of under¬ 
standing love, but I don’t need to tell you, do I? 

Suggestions venant d’un tout petit bout d'homme 

pour aider a le mieux comprendre. Excellent pour 

les moniteurs. 



17 



TUUt Vo 'tyou Vo /Ut Veup 


(A Guideline for Section Heads) 


—by Liz Greenway 
Camp Oconto 


When people ask “just what do you do all day?” it’s 
rather hard to explain. You know that you’re busy but 
you’re certainly not doing the kinds of things for which 
hero cookies are awarded. In fact, being a section head is a 
humbling kind of experience, or should be, since you know 
you're doing a good job when no one notices that you’ve 
taken your half day or 48 hours off or even been out on a 
short canoe trip. The section should just hum along without 
you. 

Don’t misunderstand me: you can’t just sit back and 
expect a well run section to happen. You are a supervisor, 
a co-ordinator and a positive force towards creating that 
well-run section. Where other counsellors teach activities 
and deal with tangibles, you are expected to keep tabs on 
the feelings or the mood of the section - very much an 
intangible. So the initial question should read, “just what 
do you try to do all day?” 

The job of supervision is a delicate one. The process 
involves constant evaluation, feedback, awareness and com¬ 
munication with the counsellors. It is they who deal most 
directly with the campers and it is the section head’s job to 
help the counsellor explore the most effective means of 
approaching her campers. The section head attempts to help 
the counsellor think for herself, arriving at her own decision 
or approach. 

One of the most important aspects of this evaluation and 
one that often gets overlooked, is praise. As a section head, 
you are constantly trying to make the section run better or 
more smoothly. This, however, does not mean always cor¬ 
recting what is wrong but also acknowledging what is right. 
This section that you work with is made up of people and 
praise, even for small progress, is essential for all of us. It’s 
rewarding to be noticed when we try to do something well. 
If the praise is honest it also increases the chances of some¬ 
one making an honest attempt to repeat the effort. 

At the same time it seems that most problems arrive at 
your doorstep. You are a sounding board or an open ear for 
people with problems, people who just want to talk or 
people who don’t know what they want — both campers 
and counsellors. It’s hard, but necessary, to remember the 
truism that bad advice is worse that no advice. We shouldn’t 
always try to solve someone’s problems for them since 
learning to cope with your own problems is part of growing 
up. Perhaps it is wise not to get too hung up on solving the 
world’s problems all at once but simply provide that 
friendly open ear. 

Many problems that counsellors come to you with are, 
in fact, no longer problems. They may already know the 
approach to take but they want a chance to say it out loud 
and receive your moral support. You provide confidence 
more often than you provide ‘wonder-cure’ solutions. This 


means understanding the needs of that particular counsellor 
and where you can best support her. 

Although problems often are real enough to the people 
involved, you have to keep things in perspective, to keep a 
sense of humour (you’d better believe it!) and to put the 
focus on the positive solution. This doesn’t mean to ignore 
the problem, but there’s no point in dwelling on things too 
long: move out and move on or you’ll all be frustrated. 

People tend to develop a lot of problems when they get 
over-tired or later in the evening when things have quieted 
down and they have time to think. Before leaping to astute 
psychological analyses cope with the minor problems first: 
things like fatigue, a particularly hot, humid day, loneliness 
due to no mail (male?!), misunderstanding or lack of com¬ 
munication. 

Once a problem has been recognized, however, there is 
no point in fuddling about with it. Do something. Take time 
to think, since people deserve more than a flippant approach, 
ask for help if you need it from the assistant director but 
then do something positive to correct the situation. 

continued on next page 

KAMP PACK 
IN CANADA! 

The finest Meals 
for 

ll Trail Campers ” 

Kamp Pack Cook-Out Foods 
packed in our own Govern¬ 
ment inspected plant. 

Choose from 36 light, tasty 
and easy-to-Fix KAMP PACK 
items. Flavor sealed foil 
packages satisfies 4 or 8 
outdoor appetites. 

Write for information to 

SELECT FOOD PRODUCTS LTD. 

KAMP PACK DIVISION 

120 SUNRISE AVENUE - TORONTO, ONT. M4A 1B4 
Telephone: 759-9316 



FOR COOK OUTS 
CAMPING OUT 
HUNTING FISHING TRIPS 

Nothing to Add but Water 
No Refrigeration Necessary 


18 





heard? do a 

At flip CCA Annual Meeting in La Belle ^ 


9 o 




At the CCA Annual Meeting in La Belle 
Province the following campers were honoured for 
their outstanding contributions to camping in Canada 
during the past year: Lome Brown, for his wise counsel and 
guidance in Nature Awareness; Jay Haddad, for 5 years as the CCA 
secretary and his leadership in the Executive Development Workshop; 
John Hasell, for his energy and great work on Standards; Jocelyn Palm, as 


4s 


«a 


Managing Director of the CCA Magazine and her work on the P.F.D. question; Helen 
Stewart, for her distinguished contribution as editor of Canadian Camping; Kirk Wipper, as 
an organizer and driving force behind the Canoe Schools and the Woodmanship School. ★ The first 
ever National French Language Camping Conference at Montmorency was a smashing success with 
delegates from across Canada studying the theme “The influence of outdoor recreation on the growth of the 
child”. Chairman Paul Belanger and his committee did a superb job with Paul’s unique Quebec flare and joie de vivre 


which he displays in ample quantities. 
★ What a joy it is to have Georges 
Robitaille, the President of ACQ, repre¬ 
senting camping so capably as our con¬ 
sultant for camping and outdoor educa¬ 
tion with Recreation Canada. Merci, 
Georges. ★ Dates have been set for 
upcoming CCA Board meetings to be 
held in conjunction with Regional 
Camping Conferences . . . Nov. 3rd to 
5th at Saskatoon, Jan. 21st to 23rd at 
Sault Ste. Marie, April 22nd to 24th 
at Vancouver. * John Latimer has been 


appointed Chairman of a very import¬ 
ant Task Force to investigate and make 
recommendations on the whole area of 
CCA development. ★ A big tip of the 
hat with thanks to Jack Pearse for his 
news from the Canadian camping scene. 
★ I cannot write “30-30” to this, my 
last column, until 1 have passed on my 
sincere thanks to some “I care” folks. . 
the provincial contacts who sent along 
articles, photos, tips and provincial 
news; those editors of the provincial 
Newsletters who asked their readers for 


contributions to Canadian Camping - 
the response was heartening; Jocelyn 
Palm for her interest and support; and 
lastly, but most important, those “faith¬ 
fuls” on the Editorial Committee who 
gave me unsurpassed assistance in pro¬ 
ducing the issues of Canadian Camping 
since the fall of’72 ... Ann, Barb, Bill, 
Bob, Bobsie, Brian, Bruno, Bryan, 
Doug, Eanswythe, Jean, Kirk, Linda, 
Madelene, Marg, Mary Jane, Paul and 
Viiu. ★ Best wishes to our readers for a 
happy and rewarding summer. 

-Helen E. Stewart 




One of the major problems that a section head deals with is that of discipline - 
campers and counsellors. . . That sense of perspective and the positive approach 
will prove invaluable. 

To help avoid most counsellor problems, I found it best to make a specific 
effort to speak to each counsellor alone every week or so, to talk over any prob¬ 
lems and to get some feedback. You don’t need to tell the counsellor that she’s 
scheduled for an interview since that can sound rather formidable but you should 
make an interview schedule for yourself. It’s awfully easy for the time to slip by. 
Suddenly it’s the third week of camp and you haven’t had a chance to sit down 
and talk for twenty minutes without being interrupted. This is in addition to your 
regular staff or section meetings. 

Finally there comes the part that I enjoy most. You can avoid most camper 
problems through awareness or what I call ‘cruising’. It’s beneficial particularly in 
the first two weeks of camp to walk through the section near or at the beginning 
of each of the periods. You may find someone alone in the tent and it’s a good 
chance to stick your head in the tent to talk to her. Everyone doesn’t have to be 
doing something all the time, since it is the summer vacation, but if it’s the same 
girl three periods in a row then perhaps there is some problem. She may need some 
friendly interest (which is not the same thing as prying) or a little encouragement. 
At any rate you need to be aware of what is, or is not, going on in the section, so 
that corrective action can be taken. 

When you do take a day off, appoint one of your counsellors to be responsible 
for the section. They’ll appreciate the responsibility and maybe they’ll even 
understand your job a little better. However, when you get back don’t ask them 
what they did all day. You’ll probably get thrown in the lake! 

So that’s the section head’s job as I see it. You have to listen, be aware, be 
available, be honest, be positive and keep tabs on the section by accepting feed¬ 
back from your staff and campers. That’s not too much eh! 

QUE FAITES-VOUS TOUTE LA JOURNEE? - Un responsable de groupe repond 
a cette question et fait des suggestions pour un programme bien articule et 
(’amelioration du climat de vie au camp. 



ALL CAMPERS' CLOTHING AND 
BELONGINGS 

should be marked for easy identification- 
losses are costly. 

CAMP LINEN AND EQUIPMENT, TOO, 
should be marked to avoid confusion 
and loss. 

NAMES OR NUMBERS CAN BE 
SUPPLIED. 

Order CASH'S NAME TAPES from 
department stores and other dealers — 
or direct from 

CASH'S 

CANADA LABELS LIMITED 

BOX 70, STATION S 
MONTREAL. QUEBEC 

PRINTED NAME PRICES 

6 doz. $3.20 9 doz. $3.65 

12 doz. $4.50 24 doz. $5.50 

No C.O.D.s. Please mail cheque or 
money order. 

Please include appropriate 
Provincial Sales Tax. 


19 













service problems with 

royal Chinet 

disposable plates and bowls 

Strong, attractive Royal CHINET food service products help you ... I 

• DISPOSE OF DISHWASHING COSTS 

Cut the expense of installing, maintaining and manning equipment 
that is used only a few months of the year. 

• DISPOSE OF BREAKAGE 

Save yourself the trouble and expense of buying matching replace¬ 
ments for pieces that crack, chip and shatter. 

• DISPOSE OF FOOD WASTE 

You get exact portion control with Royal CHINET’s wide range of 
sizes in regular and compartmented designs. 

• DISPOSE OF GERM COLLECTORS 

Royal CHINET products are sterilized when manufactured and 
packaged. And there’s never a germ-collecting chip, crack or 
poorly washed dish. 

• DISPOSE OF IRRITATING NOISE 

Disposable service is silent service. Meals are relaxed without the 
clatter and crash of china or metal. 

ENVIRONMENTAL ADVANTAGES, TOO 

All good campers want to protect the environment. Royal CHINET prod¬ 
ucts are manufactured from a renewable resource. What’s more, they’re 
biodegradable . .. molded of natural wood fibres that burn readily with 
little smoke. Even if discarded out-of-doors, Royal CHINET quickly de¬ 
composes in the earth. 

Get the full particulars now. Mail this coupon today. 

CANADIAN KEYES FIBRE COMPANY LTD. 
HANTSPORT, NOVA SCOTIA 

Please provide me with details of the variety and costs of Royal 
CHINET food service products. 

NAME_ 


to —- - 
— UD 
O VaJ 

or 

3 TO 
O — 
O O 
cl or 
3 

=E O 
— O 
— CL 

s- CO 
rf 
O T 
O CD 
rt- CD 


O 

VwO 

-< 



COMPANY or CAMP 
ADDRESS _ 


CITY 






PROV. 


TO: Mrs. W.J. Babcock 


































