WINTER 1969 



Official Publication of the Canadian Camping Association 


<%> 

%& 

c <Z?yo /Sr ** 

/S ty Cr 





MANITOBA 

CAMPING ASSOCIATION 







ON 


ONTARIO 

CAM PING ASSOCTA TIO\ 










\ 


vt* 


XX 

, v- <r 


NEWFOUNDLAND AND LABRADOR 


CAMPING ASSOCIATION 



Manufacturers 

of 

the famous 

Quickset 

Quality 

Food Products 

for Camps 
anywhere 

in Canada 

‘Tripping at Your Camp?’ 

USE 

crnp-mt 

Jelly Powders 
Pudding Powders 

Pie Fillings 

Instant Puddings 
Jiffy Whip 

Cake Mixes 

Cheese Cake Mix 
Table Syrup 

Fruit Beverages 

Hot Chocolate 
Flavorings 

Soup Bases 
Marmalades 

Jams 

Fruit Pie Fillings 
Camp-Rite 

Economical, ready-to-go food units 
packed in 4 man water - proof 
packages. Just add water, cook, 
and your meal is ready. 

You will be agreeably surprised at 
the prices! 

Ask the “Gibbons Man" for more 
information on Camp-Rite or write 
to us direct. 


GIBBONS FOODS LTD. 

49 ADVANCE ROAD TELEPHONE 239-1421 

TORONTO 18, CANADA 




CONTENTS 

New and Old .......A1 Browning 28 

Birds a Health Problem at Camp. . ....J. H. Ebbs, M.D. 32 

Camping Goes to School (S) ......Bruno Morawetz 34 

Then and Now.....Margaret Govan 40 

Up and At It! .Bruno Morawetz and Eanswythe Flynn 42 

New Directions...Elizabeth Lowry 44 

Camping in the North .Jean-Paul Patinaude 48 


CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 

301 Vaughan Street, Winnipeg 2, Man. 

Honorary President —Miss Mary S. Edgar 
President —Douglas McEwen, 301 Vaughan Street, Winnipeg 2, Manitoba. 

1st Vice-President —Gordon Stewart, 217 Edmonton Street, Winnipeg 2, Manitoba. 

2nd Vice-President —Mrs. Sally Schwetz, 251 Wildwood Park, Winnipeg, Manitoba. 
Secretary —Miss Marion Searles, 25 Osborne Street, Winnipeg, Manitoba. 

Executive Secretary —Mrs. Nancy McGregor, 301 Vaughan St., Winnipeg, Manitoba. 
Treasurer —Miss Phyllis Trotter, c/o Winnipeg YWCA, Webb Place, Winnipeg, Man. 
Publisher —Mrs. G. W. Flynn 75 Crescent Road, Apt. 8, Toronto 5, Ontario. 

Editor —Mrs. A. E. Harshaw, 35 Thorncliffe Park, Apt. 704, Toronto 17, Ontario. 

Editorial Committee: Don Groff, Chairman, Joyce Bertram, Eanswythe Flynn, 

Margaret Govan, Jean Darrach, Jocelyn Palm, John Latimer, Ann Prewitt, 
Bruno Morawetz, Jack Pearsc, Kirk Wipper, Ted Yard, Mary L. Northway. 

■#•*•#■#*** 

PROVINCIAL OFFICES 

B.C. Camping Association—616 E. Cordova Street, Vancouver 4, B.C. 

Alberta Camping Association—540 - 49th Ave. S.W., Calgary, Alberta. 

Saskatchewan Camping Association—87 Coldwell Rd.. Regina, Sask. 

Manitoba Camping Association—757 Chalmers Ave. E., Winnipeg 5, Manitoba. 
Eastern Ontario Camping Conference—2131 Neepawa Avenue, Ottawa 13, Ontario. 
Ontario Camping Association—501 Yonge Street, Suite 13, Toronto 5, Ontario. 
Quebec Camping Association—2233 Bclgrave Ave., Montreal 28, Quebec. 

Nova Scotia Camping Association—P.O. Box 1622, Halifax, N.S. 


“CANADIAN CAMPING" IS PUBLISHED FOUR TIMES A YEAR BY TOWN TALK PUBLICATIONS, FOR 
THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION. SUBSCRIPTION RATES: MEMBERSHIP IN THE CANADIAN CAMP¬ 
ING ASSOCIATION INCLUDES "CANADIAN CAMPING"; TO NON-MEMBERS. 85 CENTS PER COPY: $3.00 
PER YEAR; $8.00 PER THREE YEARS. AUTHORIZED AS SECOND CLASS MAIL. POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT, 
OTTAWA. ONT.. AND FOR PAYMENT OF POSTAGE IN CASH. 


'Toronto, Canada, Winter 1969 


27 



















and 


— OLD 


by Albert D. Browning, President 
Newfoundland and Labrador 
Camping Association 


Camping is something new and some¬ 
thing old in Newfoundland! Something 
old, because Newfoundland is the cradle 
of white civilization in North America. 
It is the region where the Viking ad¬ 
venturers landed and camped in Anno 
Domini One Thousand and One and 
named the newly discovered country 
Markland or land of Forest. It is the 
New Found Isle of John Cabot who 
sailed westward from Bristol in 1497 
and made his landfall at Cape Bona- 
vista. Yes, something old is camping in 
Newfoundland for since their inception 
Boy Scouts, Girl Guides and the boys of 
the Church Lads Brigade have been 
under canvas on the trails of the Beo- 
thucks, Newfoundland’s vanished race, 
the Vikings and the likes of John Cabot. 

Camping is something new in that 
residence camps in Newfoundland have 
a history of just over 20 years, the first 
being established at Lewisporte in 1946 
by the United Church of Canada. This 
was later moved to Loon Bay, on the 
road to the Isles. Since then the United 
Church has established two other 
Camps, Fair Haven on the west coast, 
and Burry Heights on the east coast. 
The other four residence camps in the 
province are owned and operated by the 


Anglican Church and The Salvation 
Army. Located on the west coast in 
the Bonne Bay area, which is proposed 
as Newfoundland’s second National 
Park, is Killdevil Camp, and at Mint 
Brook in Central Newfoundland Gam- 
bo region the Anglican have their sec¬ 
ond Camp. The Salvation Army Camps 
are located at Northern Arm in Central 
Newfoundland near Botwood, and 
Camp of The Silver Birches on Deer 
Lake on the west coast. 

For several years the Y.M.C.A. and 
the Y.W.C.A. have operated day camps. 
Other church organizations, the Co-op, 
4-H Clubs, Boy’s Clubs and the Diabetic 
Association rent camp facilities for 
shorter periods during the summer 
months. Throughout the s u m m e r 
months the Newfoundland Branch of 
The Canadian Red Cross visit all camps 
regularly with their Water Safety Pro¬ 
gramme. 

The Newfoundland and Labrador 
Camping Association is really some¬ 
thing very new. Sponsored by the Physi¬ 
cal Fitness Division of the Department 
of Provincial Affairs, an exploratory 
meeting was held, March 30, 1965. 
This led to the organization, election of 
officers and adopting of a constitution, 
January 31st, 1966. 

First Conference 

The first Newfoundland Camp Con¬ 
ference for Camp Directors and Camp 


28 


Canadian Camping 




Committee members was held in St. 
John’s* January 29 and 30, 1967. Mr. 
Gerald Schofield, Y.M.C.A., Ottawa, 
was the main resource person. The best 
use was made of local resource leaders 
who covered such topics as leadership, 
wilderness camping, with a detailed ac¬ 
count of navigable waters in Newfound¬ 
land. Dr. E. Pruitt of the Natural His¬ 
tory Society of Newfoundland spoke on 
how children can be taught the aware¬ 
ness of nature while enjoying a camping 
experience. This conference made each 
delegate aware of the need for such 
Conferences and the necessity of a 
Camping Association for the benefit of 
all engaged in the exciting business of 
camping. 

A second conference was held at 
Memorial University of Newfoundland, 
St. John’s in January 1968. Two leader¬ 
ship training weekends were conducted 
in 1967 and 1968. This year’s event 
was sponsored by the Newfoundland 
and Labrador Camping Association 
and the Y.W.C.A., with very generous 
financial support being given by the 
Provincial Government of Newfound¬ 
land and the Y.W.C.A. Special re¬ 
source leaders were Miss Barbara 
Murphy, National Day Camp Leader¬ 
ship Training Director and Mr. Jack 
Pearse, of Waterloo University Physical 
Education Department and well-known 
in the Ontario Camping Association. 
This very professional and excellent 
team made a tremendous contribution 
to Camping in general in Newfound¬ 
land. In September of 1968 the New¬ 
foundland and Labrador Camping 
Association were honoured and pleased 
to learn that they had been received as 
affiliate members of the Canadian 
Camping Association. 

Leadership 

The birth of the Newfoundland and 
Labrador Camping Association has not 
been easy. In fact, in 1966, our first 


year of existence, we had no less than 
three Presidents! This rapid turnover 
was largely due to this transient age. 
Due to so few having camping experi¬ 
ence it has not been easy to enlist an 
executive. The present executive con¬ 
sists of Honorary Chairman, The Hon¬ 
ourable Dr. G. A. Frecker, LL.D., 
M.H.A.; Past President, Dr. Douglas 
Eaton; President, Major Ai Browning; 
Vice-President, Rev. A. B. LeGrow; 
Secretary-Treasurer, Miss Marjorie Ball 
to whom we are most grateful as the 
only charter executive member. Mr. 
Graham Snow, Director of The Physical 
Fitness Division of The Provincial 
Government has given excellent support 
as Government representative and ad¬ 
viser. 

Picture a vast 156,185 square miles 
of almost virgin territory, etched with 
thousands of lakes and streams and up¬ 
holstered with endless miles of evergreen 
forests and rolling barrens of tundra. 
This is the province of Newfoundland 
and Labrador in terms of the geography 
that makes it a paradise for camping. 
Its total area encompasses more than 
thirteen thousand square miles of water 
and many of the lakes and streams have 
never floated an artificial fly or rippled 
to the tread of a wading boot. 

The Provincial Government of New¬ 
foundland is to be commended for the 
development of excellent camping parks 
in attractive locations where the natural 
state of the unspoiled wilderness is 
preserved. Family camping is very 
much on the increase in Newfoundland, 
although to date no one has established 
a private residence camp. 

A Tremendous Adventure 

However, the facilities and pro¬ 
gramme of the established resident 
camps operated by the churches are 
developing exceedingly well. Most 
camps are now employing a permanent 


Toronto, Canada, Winter 1969 


29 



mined to profit by the experiences of 
others in the Canadian Camping 
Association. 

Several Camps arc experimenting in 
unit camping and in co-ed camping. In 
fact in 1969 The Salvation Army is 
sponsoring a National Co-ed Camp for 
Venturer Scouts and Girl Guide Ran¬ 
gers at their Camp of The Silver Birches 
in Newfoundland. Our new campers 
have given much evidence of appreciat¬ 
ing the opportunity to learn. Through 
the Camping Association we hope to 
enlist many more to assist in developing 
camping in general in Newfoundland. 
We urgently need experienced counsel¬ 
lors, and waterfront directors. Our 
doors are wide open and we will warmly 
welcome any who would like to come 
over and help us in our great outdoor 
adventure in camping. We believe you, 
too, with us will discover something 
new and something old in camping in 
Newfoundland and Labrador! 

V 


MEDICAL 
SUPPLIES 
FOR CAMPS? 

Starkmans of course, because we have been supplying all the major 
camps for over 37 years. 

Starkmans wholesale division gives you one source of supply—fast 
service, and all orders are shipped the same day received. 

You are sure of the finest First Aid equipment, drugs and medicines, 
call or write, and remember low, low prioes prevail at Starkmans. 

STARKMAN 

“Jn the Set vice oj Medicine " CHEMISTS LIMITED 

1243 Bathurst St., Toronto 
535-3103 


summer service staff and due considera¬ 
tion is being given to camp standards. 
We have no difficulty whatsoever in 
meeting our quota of campers. For 
many campers from the outport com¬ 
munities of our happy Province, a resi¬ 
dent Camping experience has been a 
tremendous adventure. Just imagine 
going to Camp to see your first train, 
an opportunity to see an overseas ship, 
besides all the other usual experiences 
of camp life, such as exploring the world 
of nature, making new friends, partici¬ 
pating in a variety of organized activi¬ 
ties hitherto unknown to you, sharing 
in the wonderful mystical experience of 
a camp fire which must always be lo¬ 
cated three feet from a body of water 
during the summer months in New¬ 
foundland! The novelty of camping 
has by no means worn off in Newfound¬ 
land and Labrador. Its educational, 
spiritual, social and citizenship values 
are unlimited. We who are engaged as 
Gamp Directors and staff are deter- 


30 


Canadian Camping 




NEW INFORMATION, SERVICES, PRODUCTS 

FOR 

CAMP OPERATORS 


INFORMATION 

SERVICES 

—Information Releases — New Product Knowledge 
—Service Releases — Production Guidelines 
—New Menu Suggestions 
—New Quantity Recipes 
—Series of Staff Training Helps 

“Fundamentals of Good Food Service” 

FOOD SERVICE 
PRODUCTS 

—Bulk Baking Mixes 

(Cakes, Cookies, Muffins, Donuts, Sweet Goods) 

—Pancake Mixes 

(Regular, Just Add Water, Buttermilk, Buckwheat) 

—Deep Fry Batters 

(Fish, Chicken, Fritters, Chops) 

—Hot Cereals 

(Quick, Old Fashioned, Quick Wheatlets) 

—Cold Cereals 

(Cornflakes, Muffets, Puffed Wheat, Puffed Rice, Cap'n Crunch— 
Assorted Individuals) 

—Hard & Soft Wheat Flours 

(Quaker All Purpose Flour — Saxon Pastry Flour) 

—Burry Biscuits 

(Individually Wrapped — Bulk Packed) 

FURTHER 

DETAILS 

Just write or call the Toronto Office — Tel. 222-6568 

5385 Yonge St., 

Willowdale, Ont. 

We will be glad to supply any further Information desired on 
Service Helps, Product Knowledge and Delivery Services to your 
individual camp(s). 


Food Service Division 


Q 

QUAKER 


The 

Quaker Oats Company 
of Canada Limited 

Peterborough, Ontario 



Toronto, Canada, Winter 1969 


31 





Unexplained illnesses are sometimes 
traced to diseases transmitted from 
birds. For instance, bronchial condi¬ 
tions, such as asthmatic attacks, particu¬ 
larly in people who have allergies, are 
occasionally traced to the sensitivity of 
the individual to pet birds. The most 
severe form is one which, in addition 
to asthma-like attacks, shows a fever 
and cough with sputum and a general 
feeling of illness which lasts from 24 to 
36 hours. It has been shown in many 
cases that this is due to the presence of 
a fungus known as Aspergillus which 
comes from bird droppings and can be 
inhaled from the dust in bird cages 
and huts. 

Bird Breeder's Lung 

A more serious disease known as 
‘Bird Breeders* Lung*’ has been recog¬ 
nized recently. It occurs in persons 


who have repeated contact with birds 
such as pigeons, kept in a pigeon house. 
The attacks are caused by breathing 
the air containing the dust and feathers 
at a time when the cleaning is done. 
The human may exhibit severe asthma¬ 
tic breathing and cough, and there may 
be runny nose and eyes, while in some 
cases there is skin irritation. The signs 
are due to inhalation of the dry drop¬ 
pings and particles of feather. Previous 
contact produces sensitivity to the or¬ 
ganic matter which is in the bird drop¬ 
pings. The human victim has severe 
coughing attacks, brings up sputum and 
usually has some fever. The outstand¬ 
ing sign is difficulty in breathing and 
the attacks last over a long period of 
time, often with considerable loss of 
weight. 

An X-ray of the chest shows a re¬ 
action similar to a mild pneumonia 
scattered throughout the lung with en¬ 
largement of the glands which drain 
the lung. Later there may be fine 
scarring in the lung which impairs 
oxygen uptake during breathing. 

Virus Diseases 

A number of virus diseases can be 
transmitted by birds, either through the 
excreta or droppings, or as a result of 
bites of mosquitoes and other insects 
carrying the virus to the blood of the 
human. A form of encedphalitis or 
brain fever has been known to be 
caused by these viruses. 

Psittacosis is another disease caused 
by a virus found in birds such as par¬ 
rots and pigeons which sometimes be¬ 
come sick with this infection. If man 
inhales the droppings or dust, he may 
get the disease which produces fever 
and cough with chills and a general 
feeling of illness which lasts from 1 to 2 
weeks. It is often thought to be a case 
of bronchitis. 


32 


Canadian Camping 



Samonella 


The eggs of birds, such as the domes¬ 
tic chicken, can become infected with 
a dysentery germ known as Salmonella, 
which produces diarrhea and low grade 
fever. It has been known to produce 
minor epidemics. It has been traced to 
dried eggs which when used in making 
pastry mixes etc. has infected man. 

Rarely a form of mild tuberculosis 
has been noted in birds known as “avian 
tuberculosis”. 

Ducks and other water-fowl have 
been known to infect stagnant water. 

It is not uncommon, particularly in 
camps, to have individuals bitten by 
small fleas or lice which have left nests 


abandoned by young birds. These fleas 
then invade a tent or cabin and tem¬ 
porarily feed on man. They produce 
bright red, itchy spots which are un- 

No Pet Birds 

The keeping of pet birds in camp 
should be considered seriously since the 
risk of infection cannot be ignored. The 
camper with a history of allergies should 
be kept away from bird cages and 
houses. Wild birds, dead or alive and 
their nests should be left alone, unless 
a careful inspection is made to exclude 
possible infestation with body parasites 
which might attack humans. While the 
risk of the above conditions developing 
is not great, it is much safer to observe 
birds in their natural state. 

V 


EMBROIDERED CAMP CRESTS 

CUSTOM-MADE TO YOUR DESIGN 

Your choice of colours on washable material, with colourfast silk yarns. Quality 
silk embroidery at prices you would normally expect to pay for other types of 
crests. Send a rough sketch of your design for a quotation. FREE artwork. 


GRANT 


EMBLEMS 


Stanley A. Grant Limited/134 Park Lawn Rd. Toronto 18/Canada 


BI-MOR FROZEN FOOD SERVICE LTD. 

DISTRIBUTORS OF 

FROZEN FOODS, VEGETABLES, SEA FOODS, MEATS, ETC. 

• KRAFT FOODS • E. D. SMITH 

• NESTLES • RICH’S PRODUCTS 

• GENERAL FOODS • WYANDOTTE CHEMICALS 

TWICE WEEKLY REFRIGERATED SERVICE IN MUSKOKA, 

LAKE OF BAYS AND HAUBURTON 

HUNTSVILLE REPRESENTATIVE 789-5341 TORONTO OFFICE 742-4755 


Toronto, Canada, Winter 1969 


S3 







CAMPING 


GOES TO SCHOOL(S) 


by Bruno Morawetz , Ph.D. t 
Director , Camp Ponacka 


It has taken fifty years for the edu¬ 
cational authorities to realize the tre¬ 
mendous values which are inherent in 
a camping experience. Now that the 
discovery has been made, everyone in 
education — from classroom teachers, 
Teachers’ Colleges, Colleges of Educa¬ 
tion, as well as the higher echelons in 
the ministry — is realizing that our 
Canadian children need to get in the 
out-of-doors, and they are getting on 
the bandwagon called OUTDOOR 
EDUCATION. If you are confused 
about the meaning of the term, let me 
console you that there is a great diver¬ 
gence of opinion even among those en¬ 
gaged in outdoor education. But in 
spite of this they are all agreed that 
the out-of-doors has tremendous poten¬ 
tial in the educational process of the 
individual. Outdoor education can 
mean such a simple thing as taking the 
classroom into the school yard, or bring¬ 
ing a good deal of the outdoors to the 
inside of the classroom; it can mean 
taking a class of children into an ad¬ 
jacent park or a national park, to a 
farm, or to a maple sugar bush. It 
can mean an experience in a residential 
camp situation (school camping), or it 
can mean voluntary outings by a group 
—usually of high school students—into 
the wilderness by canoes, by snowshoes, 
etc. 

Teaching Can Be More Fruitful 

The school authorities and teachers 
have finally recognized that teaching 


can be more fruitful if the child faces 
the real thing than if it tries to absorb 
it from an illustration in a text book, 
or a diagram on the blackboard. With 
the new emphasis on the method of dis¬ 
covery, teachers and school authorities 
have recognized that there is much 
more opportunity for applying this 
method in the out-of-doors than in the 
classroom. 

The interest in outdoor education 
has become so widespread that the On¬ 
tario College of Education found it 
advisable to organize two conferences, 
the second of which was held during the 
weekend of November 15, 1968, at 
Geneva Park, on the shores of Lake 
Couchiching in Central Ontario. As 
the Chairman of the Outdoor Educa¬ 
tion Committee of the Canadian Camp¬ 
ing Association, I was invited to attend. 
Camping people should be aware of the 
extent to which schools across our land 
have gone into camping. 

It is difficult to predict what the 
outcome of this “marriage” might be, 
but if one allows one’s imagination to 
roam, one could foresee developments 
of this kind: teachers may be advised 
to spend some of their vacation time in 
camps in order to learn more about 
children, and especially the handling of 
children in informal, unstructured situa¬ 
tions; teachers may find it fruitful to 
learn how to conduct themselves with 
children in the out-of-doors. School 


34 


Canadian Camping 



authorities may search for camps where 
children could be taken either on a 
daily or weekly basis; camps may find 
it advisable to winterize so that their 
facilities could be used during the en¬ 
tire year by the nearby schooL boards; 
camp-trained personnel may be needed 
as resource persons for school boards 
contemplating a full outdoor education 
programme. 

The one thing that was perfectly 
clear at the Conference was that most 
educators riding on the outdoor educa¬ 
tion bandwagon received their intial 
impetus through organized camping. 
Most of them were former campers, 
counsellors, section heads or directors 
and they are now introducing the values 
of camping into the school system. The 
camping movement should warmly wel¬ 
come these efforts because it has always 
believed that camping has unique edu¬ 
cational opportunities, and it should be 
gratified that these are now made 
available to a large number of our Can¬ 
adian children. Until now it has been 
reserved for the few well-to-do, or those 
fortunate enough to be sponsored by 
agency camps. 

A Revealing Feature 


oft item 


Make it a requirement 
that all campers' clothing 
and belongings are 
marked with 





NAME 

TAPES 


Camp linen and equipment, too, 
should be marked to avoid 
confusion and loss. Names 
or numbers can be supplied. 

Order Cash's Name Tapes 
from dealers or 

CASH'S, Box 116 r Belleville, Ont 


PRINTED f 6 doz. $1.50—12 doz. $2.00 

NAME \ 

PRICES L 9 doz. $1.75—24 doz. $3.00 


THE YOUNG NATURALIST — 


an indispensable aid to the camper 
and camp counsellor in Natural 
Science 


One of the most revealing features of 
the Conference was the tremendous 
diversity of people who have shown an 
interest in outdoor education. Since 
education is a Provincial matter, it is 
necessary to organize a Conference of 
this kind on Provincial lines and there¬ 
fore the Conference was representative 
only of Ontario educators. Represented 
were the Teachers’ Colleges from Ham¬ 
ilton, London, Toronto, North Bay, 
Stratford—Colleges of Education from 
Kingston, London and Toronto. The 
Ontario Government sent representa¬ 
tives from its Department of Education 
as well as the Department of Energy 
and Resource Management. The Uni- 


Write today for a Free sample copy. 

THE FEDERATION OF ONTARIO 
NATURALISTS 

maintains one of the largest selec¬ 
tions of Natural Science books in 
Canada 

Visit or telephone the office for our 
catalogue. 

FEDERATION OF 
ONTARIO NATURALISTS 

1262 Don Mills Rd., Don Mills, Ont. 
444-8419 


Toronto, Canada, Winter 1969 


35 



versities sent professors engaged in such 
wide-ranging fields as child study, rec- 
reoiogy, physical and health education, 
anthropology and geology. Representa¬ 
tives were present from the Toronto 
Island Natural Science School and the 
well-known Albion Hills Conservation 
School, as well as from various conser¬ 
vation authorities, like the Federation 
of Ontario Naturalists, Teachers, Fed¬ 
erations, etc. 

One of the main themes and purposes 
of the Conference was to study ways 
and means by which teachers could be 
prepared to handle classes and to pro¬ 
vide learning experiences in the out-of- 
doors. Certain students from Teachers’ 
Colleges and Colleges of Education have 
already attended courses in outdoor 
education, and one of the main topics 
of discussion was the ways and means 
by which such teacher training could 
be broadened and deepened. 

One of the speakers was Dr. John 
Kirk, the Director of the New Jersey 
State School of Conservation. In his 
keynote address he elaborated on his 
now well-known definition of outdoor 
education: “Outdoor Education is the 
method which utilizes the out-of-doors 
to cultivate a reverence for life through 
an ecological exploration of the inter¬ 
dependence of all living things, one on 
the other, and to form a land ethic 
illustrating man’s temporary steward¬ 
ship of the land”. He is one of those 
pioneers who has blazed the way for 
outdoor education south of the border 
and he inspired the members of the 
Conference with enthusiasm to follow 


his excellent example. His school has 
trained thousands of teachers in the 
methods and philosophy of outdoor 
education. 

New Developments 

The newest College of Education to 
be established in Ontario is the Mc¬ 
Arthur College of Education at Queen’s 
University. The Associate Dean of that 
school is Bill Peruniak who has become 
famous in outdoor education circles 
through his Atikokan High School 
Outers’ Program. While he was a prin¬ 
cipal at the Atikokan High School in 
Northern Ontario, he began a compre¬ 
hensive outdoor programme for Grade 
11 students whereby they would go on an 
extensive canoe trip in the spring, on an 
extensive snowshoe hike in the winter, 
and during the year prepare for these 
exciting outings. His programme was 
modelled after the “Outward Bound” 
schools which stress primarily the de- 
velopement of character through pitting 
one’s self against the odds presented by 
nature. The Atikokan High School 
programme was inspired by the rugged 
leader of the Wisconsin “Outward 
Bound” school, Bob Pieh, who has now 
joined the McArthur College staff, and 
is primarily responsible for the outdoor 
education of its future high school 
teachers. 

It should be noted that several high 
schools in the Province of Ontario are 
now imitating the Atikokan Outers’ pro¬ 
gramme. This adds the dimension of 
character growth to the more formal 
dimension of education. High school 


JOHN LECKIE LIMITED 

WAU. TENTS, SCOUT TENTS, TARPS, SLEEPING BAGS, ETC. 
also 

SNOWMOBILE SUITS AND GAUNTLETS 

30 UPJOHN ROAD, DON MILLS, ONT. 445-3400 


36 


Canadian Camping 





teachers graduating from a College like 
McArthur will be able to continue and 
spread these types of programmes. Be¬ 
fore too long the impact of outdoor 
education should result in a much better 
awareness of our young people in the 
value of our outdoor resources and an 
appreciation of the fact that man must 
learn to live with his environment so 
that the environment can continue to 
sustain him. 

In Ontario many school boards have 
acquired or leased buildings, or land, 
or both, where teachers in training, as 
well as classrooms, can gain outdoor ex¬ 
perience. The London Teachers’ College 
is now sending one hundred students 
a day to such an outdoor field centre. 
North York, which is one of the larger 
municipalities of Metropolitan Toronto, 
sends five hundred pupils every day to 
a leased property within its own bound¬ 
aries. The property so used is, in effect, 
a summer camp, a privately operated 
day camp, and this indicates the possi¬ 
bilities that exist for other camps to 
co-operate with local school boards. 

An interesting comment was made by 
the representative from the Department 
of Energy and Resource Management, 
a Government body responsible for the 
various conservation authorities. He 
pointed out that conservation authori¬ 
ties would be most pleased to collab¬ 
orate with educational authorities in the 
use of its lands for educational purposes. 

Dr. Emerson from the Department 
of Anthropology at the University of 
Toronto reported that he receives daily 
calls from eager teachers who would 
like to take their classes on a ‘dig 5 . In 
all parts of our country Indian sites 
are being discovered and he is now 
training persons who will be able to 
take their classes on a ‘dig 5 . He pointed 
out that involvement in archeology 


WROUGHT IRON RANGE 
CO. 

OF CANADA, LIMITED 

COMPLETE KITCHEN AND 
FOOD SERVICE EQUIPMENT 
AND SMALL WARES 

1360 Bloor Street West, Toronto 4 
537-1281 

Visit our exhibit at the O.C.A. Conference 

JARVIS PRODUCTS & OSCAR 
PEARSON ENTERPRISES 

will now be known as 

POOL MAN Limited 

Water Fun & Safety Items 
Playground Equipment 
Transhailers 

Water Pumps and Softeners 
Write for Catalogue 

1870 Dundas Hwy. E. - Cooksville 
279-9811 


N _ w a BURGESS Publishing Co. 

Camping Book 

AN INTRODUCTION TO 

BASIC CRAFTS 

by Gretchen Grimm 

Gamp leaders and campers can use 
this book to good advantage. It is 
written for the novice, covers 10 
crafts, with over 250 photographs 
portraying both step-by-step pro¬ 
cedures and finished projects. Grafts 
include basketry, weaving, wood, 
leather, paper, plastics, mosaics, put¬ 
ting designs on fabrics, copper enamel¬ 
ling, ceramics and pottery-making. 

1968; 7/2 x 10"; vli, 107 pages; 
sewed paper; highly illustrated 

Order this and other 
Burgess Camping Books from 

McAINSH AND CO., LTD. 

863 Bay St. 730 W. Broadway 

Toronto 5, Ont. Vancouver 9, B.C. 


Toronto , Canada, Winter 1969 


37 



leads to interest in geology, history, 
geography, anthropology and related 
subjects. 

To those who arc not familiar with 
the aims and purposes of outdoor edu¬ 
cation, it should be said that outdoor 
education is not one subject among 
others. It is not a subject to be crowded 
into an already busy curriculum: but it 
is a method of teaching any subject in 
the out-of-doors. Those who are fa¬ 
miliar with its techniques know that 
you can teach arithmetic in the out-of- 
doors and employ the problem-solving 
approach at the same time. For ex¬ 
ample: a student could be asked to 
measure the board feet in a log, or the 
velocity of a stream, or any other prob¬ 
lem that a surveyor might be confronted 
with. Great interest in social studies 
can be sparked by visiting an aban¬ 
doned settlement, an old cemetery, an 
old mill, and both geography and his¬ 
tory come to life in such a setting. 

Tremendous Implications 

The implications of this new move¬ 
ment lor camping are tremendous. 
There was some serious talk about 


granting credit to teachers working in 
a camp during the summer, and many 
moves are taking place whereby school 
boards and camp owners are beginning 
to talk to one another about possible 
year-round use of camping facilities. 

The heartening thing about such a 
Conference is that it provides evidence 
of how many communities or resources 
are brought together in the effort of 
making man’s continued stay on this 
earth more secure, and for making his 
mental health better by preparing him 
for the use of the out-of-doors for 
needed recreation. 

The surest indication that outdoor 
education is on the move lies in the fact 
that a World Council for outdoor edu¬ 
cation is being formed and thirty-five 
nations have expressed a definite in¬ 
terest in such a body. The well-being 
of the human species demands that 
camping lend a hand in this great new 
development. Canadians can be proud 
of the great example it is setting in this 



LUMBER STORES 

"JOE BEAVER" A GOOD JOE TO KNOW 

MORE THAN 285 STORES ACROSS CANADA 
FREE ESTIMATES AND PLANNING HELP 



38 


Canadian Camping 




LOOK 


what 50< buys.. 


CAMP CARE 


PLAN No. 4 


ACCIDENTAL DEATH .‘.$3,000.00 

DOUBLE DISMEMBERMENT . i . 3,000.00 

SINGLE DISMEMBERMENT .1. 1,500.00 

SICKNESS . 3,000.00 

DREAD DISEASE . 3,000.00 

ACCIDENTAL INJURY . 3,000.00 

ACCIDENTAL DENTAL . 200.00 


DRUGS 


AMBULANCE 


50.00 


Where there is a resident physician on the camp staff 
COVERS: 7 days at camp PLUS 2 days of travel. 

CAMP CARE is underwritten by the 

LEADING CANADIAN COMPANY 
IN THE ACCIDENT AND SICKNESS FIELD 



CANADA HEALTH & ACCIDENT 
ASSURANCE CORPORATION 

Home Office 

625 CHURCH STREET, TORONTO 5 — 924-0751 

Offices in 22 cities across Canada 
Check the white pages for the office in your city 


Toronto, Canada, Winter 1969 


39 













THEN and NOW 


by Margaret Govan 


Once upon a time, in the golden 
age of camping, when I had a small 
camp, I was chief-filler-in! I was busy 
every day and I loved every minute 
of it. I put cabins to bed, taught camp 
craft or swimming, or umpired, or told 
stories. I had my finger in a dozen pies 
and just as many plans. 

I Remember 

I remember one day when I took the 
oldest cabin out for a day trip—their 
own counsellor had some responsibility 
at camp. I was treated as royalty for 
the first three quarters of an hour . . . 
seated on a cushion in the centre of a 
canoe with a back-rest, if you please. 
We reached the camp island and dis¬ 
embarked. I supervised a swim . . . yes, 
I had the proper qualifications. My 
biggest problem was that all eight had 
white bathing caps and a great desire 
to do underwater swimming. After ten 
minutes, I suggested surface swimming; 
my nerves were slightly frayed. When 
they had finished all eight supervised 
me. Then we lay and sun-bathed and 
talked . . . girl talk, dates and vocations, 
parents and hair-do’s. And those appall¬ 
ing youngest seniors! Time had ceased 
to exist until somebody said her stom¬ 
ach was caving in, and then everybody 
was starving. I had to teach a little 
campcraft; it is amazing how quickly 
they can forget what they are not in¬ 
terested in ... so I had to pass on the 
burning quailities of the wood, and 
make a few suggestions about the build¬ 
ing of a fire place. But they took over 
the bacon and eggs and toast. I wonder 
how many pieces of burned toast I 
have eaten in my day! More sun¬ 


bathing and a few reminders about the 
heat of the mid-day sun. More swim¬ 
ming and gunwale bobbing. More food. 
Real steaks. I managed by a little sub¬ 
terfuge to cook my own. Then a moon¬ 
light paddle back, and nobody objected 
to my stemming one canoe. I was sun- 
filled, relaxed and highly privileged to 
know eight senior campers better. 

I took the ‘appalling* youngest seniors 
out for Sunday tea. I watched them 
play ‘bear* for over an hour, in the tall 
bracken, in a neighbouring field. All 
they needed was a younger programme, 
and less expected of them. 

There was the episode of the dragon 
fly. (I had the very youngest cabin for 
nature lore.) We watched it come out 
of its chrysalis, all shiny and uncertain; 
then a large frog, hiding under a' rock, 
made him his breakfast! That took 
some explaining . . . quite inadequate. 
So we all went in for an un-scheduled 
skinny, and life was more cheerful. I 
could go on forever. 

Gamp is larger now; it has to be. 
Over-head takes care of that. (I asked 
a camp director with a mathematical 
mind how much a counsellor cost these 
days, above and beyond his salary. 
$167.00 per summer, came the answer.) 

My Biggest Problem 

But my biggest problem is my respon¬ 
sibilities as a director. I feel I belong 
to the campers. I lay the best of plans 
as regards the budgeting of time, with 
good time allowance them, in case some 
interview takes longer, but before I’ve 
finished my breakfast juice in the dining 
room, someone has come to see me ... a 
questionaire plus a reporter on the use 
of land for recreation purposes ... a 
representative from the Department of 
Agriculture re garbage and pigs. T)id I 
feed my garbage to pigs?’ 


40 


Canadian Camping 


I had been feeling very guilty that 1 
didn’t for some time; it seemed such a 
waste of good garbage. But he was de¬ 
lighted for it seems that all garbage fed 
to pigs has to be pasteurized in a very 
particular fashion. 

I had five health inspectors one day 
. . . that was because we have a lagoon. 
It didn’t stop the ordinary health in¬ 
spection. We have a post office and so 
a post office inspector. 

Also water authority. They want 
forms filled out daily. My senior hired 
man was all for resigning on the spot. 

Also visitors to see the camp. They 
always come on wet days because they 
can think of no other way to entertain 
a household of youngsters in their 
rather restricted accommodation. 

Of course, there are all the financial 
inspectors . . . pensions, deductions at 
the source, workmen’s compensation, 


and unemployment insurance. They 
know as much about small businesses 
as I know about computors! If I could 
afTord to employ a first rate accountant 
for twelve months of the year, it would 
be simple. It would also cost more than 
my total profit! I am the responsible 
person; I have to see them personally. 

There are also forms. I wish there 
were a similar contraption to a pedo¬ 
meter to add up all the time consumed 
in the filling, refilling, and correction of 
forms. 

So looking into the crystal ball, I 
must make sufficient money to employ 
either a director or an accountant, as 
well as pay for everything else. So I 
must have a larger camp. Large camps 
have a vital place in children’s lives, 
but so do small ones. I think some 
children are going to lose out. Or else 
I’ll have to marry a director or an 
accountant! 


Quality and personal service is provided by J. H. BEATTIE’S 
for all campers in Ontario. 

Outfitters for: 

CAMP TAWINGO 

MANITOU-WABING CAMP OF FINE ARTS 
KILCOO CAMP 



Boys’ and Young Men’s 
Clothing 
and 

Furnishings 


430 EGLINTON AVENUE WEST, TORONTO 12 - 481-4459 


'Toronto, Canada, Winter 1969 


41 








AND AT 


There’s much to do in the way of 
preparation before directors can drive 
into camp on that first boggy trip of 
spring. Most of us make a check list 
at the end of camp, to be followed each 
month until June 28th or so. At this 
time , .. NOW ... contacts can be made 
in the city, some supplies ordered, and 
plans for improvement and caretaking 
placed on the drawing board. 

If you haven’t already started, time 
is a-moverin’. Check your Conference 
Digests for all articles on Camp Ad¬ 
ministration and Maintenance. One in 
particular, in the 1967 issue, is written 
by Mr. Bill Swift of Camp Pathfinder; 
a month-by-month checklist you will 
find most valuable. We follow with a 
few more memory joggers to help you 
along: 

Health Department 

—Apply for camp license. Carry out 
inspector’s recommendations of pre¬ 
vious summer. Order water-testing 
kits and chlorinating supplies. Order 
screen for windows, jon vents, etc. 



by Bruno Morawetz, Camp Ponacka 
and 

Eanswythe Flynn t Camp Brigadoon 


Public Relations 

—First newsletter to parents and cam¬ 
pers outlining future plans. Mail bro¬ 
chures, applications. Get in touch 
with staff, parents, friends, campers. 
Prepare slides and films for showing 
to parents. Check camp booklets, 
letterhead, application forms, en¬ 
velopes for year’s supply. Participate 
in local camping association activities. 
Attend leadership seminars. 

Transportation 

—Make arrangements with Bus Line 
for transportation of campers to and 
from camp. Make list of necessary 
counsellors to act as chaperones. 

Government Requirements 

—Order supply of T4 forms and all 
other necessary forms for income tax 
and Canada Pension Plan purposes, 
including application form for gaso¬ 
line tax refund. 

Camp Uniforms 

—Consult with local store or supplier 
for this year’s supply and size range. 


42 


Canadian Camping 



Maintenance 

—Consult maintenance overseer re 
building, repairs, additions, condition 
of docks after winter wear. Check 
chimneys, refill or replace fire ex¬ 
tinguishers, fences, gates. Have jons 
shored up, repaired and painted 
where necessary. Check water lines, 
taps and T’s for possible leaks. 

Kitchen 

—Find new menus, ways of economiz¬ 
ing without sacrificing quality. Order 
food supplies early, before the last- 
minute rush. You will then be first 
on the delivery list. Settle kitchen 
staff early. Arrange TB tests and 
Medical check-up. Check stoves, 
electrical burners and ovens, Propane 
stoves and tank supply, wood stoves 
and fireplaces for safety. Advise local 
Hydro office to turn on electricity for 
Hot water tank. 

Staff 

—Advertise for staff needs, prepare job 
descriptions, mail applications, health 
forms, contracts, etc. Advise staff of 
necessity for health examination be¬ 
fore camp. Invite C.I.T.’s to return. 


Programme 

—Check games supplies, tennis nets, 
court surfaces, diving board, flutter 
boards, reaching poles, books on pro¬ 
gramme ideas. Jot down ideas for 
Sunday talks; write outline of talks 
if possible. Have one or two themes 
in mind to suggest for closing ban¬ 
quets. 

General Supplies 

—Order supply of lumber, paint, nails, 
other equipment after discussion with 
maintenance overseer. Sand, gravel 
and cement should be considered if 
necessary, but keep cement under 
cover until used. Order new matt¬ 
resses for cabins, for best value rather 
than lowest price. 



PLAN NOW ! 

JOIN YOUR FELLOW MEMBERS AT 


THE INN ON THE PARK 

ONTARIO CAMPING ASSOCIATION ANNUAL CAMPING CONFERENCE 
March 6, 7 and 8, 1969, at Toronto 


Toronto, Canada , Winter 1969 


45 






NEW DIRECTIONS 


IN EDUCATION 

by Elizabeth Lowry , 

Senior Assistant Editor , 

Office of Information Service, 

Ontario Institute for Studies in Education 


An adult working with young people 
today—whether as teacher, clergyman, 
or camp counsellor—finds himself faced 
increasingly with conflicts that often 
seem beyond solution. The adolescent’s 
traditional restlessness appears height¬ 
ened, his attitude toward school turned 
into hostility. Little that the education¬ 
al system offers him seems palatable. 

Searching For Cures 

Those searching for cures to the cur¬ 
rent unrest may find a valuable source 
of help in the work of The Ontario 
Institute for Studies in Education. The 
Institute, now four years old, is both a 
graduate school, of education and a 
center for educational research and de¬ 
velopment. It is financed chiefly by the 
Ontario Government, is affiliated with 
the University of Toronto for degree¬ 
granting purposes, but is otherwise au¬ 
tonomous. Its stafF of 550 professors, 
researchers, and clerical personnel occu¬ 
pies eleven floors of a high-rise office 
building at 102 Bloor Street West, 
Toronto, and space as well in three 
nearby buildings. Director of OISE is 
Dr. R. W. B. Jackson, who for many 
years headed the former Department of 
Educational Research of the Ontario 
College of Education. 

Dr. Jackson and his associates are 
the chief architects of what they hope 
will be a revolutionary influence on edu¬ 


cation. To bring this about they have 
assembled staff from many parts of Can¬ 
ada, United States, and other countries, 
alL specializing in some field of study 
which has a bearing on education. 
Their task is to accomplish three pur¬ 
poses: to conduct research in educa¬ 
tion; to help put the findings of re¬ 
search to work in classrooms; and to 
conduct graduate courses in education 
throughout the year and during the 
summer. 

Purpose and Programme 

Although the Institute is not directly 
studying causes of student unrest, for 
example, many of its projects have the 
potential to shed light on and help solve 
problems experienced by young people. 
The range of research and development 
extends from a project in infant learn¬ 
ing to studies in adult education that 
concern people whose formal schooling 
was concluded years ago. The Institute 
is concerned not only with improving 
courses of study in regular school sys¬ 
tems, but also with developing pro¬ 
grammes for educating adults, young 
and old, and providing special types of 
education for exceptional children. Be¬ 
cause the tasks of education are complex 
and intricate, the Institute is made up 
of nine different departments, each of 
which approaches education from a 
different point of view. 


44 


Canadian Camping 



Psychologists and sociologists who 
have studied today’s growing conflicts 
have found that many of them originate 
in the so-called “inner cities” of our 
ever-expanding urban centres. Children 
from homes in these lower income areas 
are at a sharp disadvantage in school, 
eventually drop out, and become prob¬ 
lem cases, perhaps for the rest of their 
lives. Frequently a vicious circle is 
created and the children of these people 
arc unable to live normal lives. One 
Institute project which tries to get at 
the root of this social abscess is a unique 
experimental programme with a small 
group of children from a downtown 
Toronto area. This programme, headed 
by Dr. Carl Bcreitcr of the Department 
of Applied Psychology, aims at giving 
children from these disadvantaged 
homes a better preparation for Grade 1. 
Bereiter’s approach is to provide the 
children, all five-year-olds, with ten 
hours a week of intensive academic 
work, carried out along with a regular 
kindergarten programme. 

Development 

The Bereiter programme tries to de¬ 
velop into these children an ability to 
form ideas and use language, so they 
can enter Grade 1 on an equal footing 
with children from homes with greater 
cultural advantages. The class work in¬ 
cludes regular periods in language, 
motor coordination, reading, refresh¬ 
ments, and mathematics. The language 
programme, an especially important 
one, aims at making the children able 
to grasp the ideas of si/e, location and 
use, and understand the relations be¬ 
tween them. This year the programme 
is being tested in eleven classrooms in 
the Metropolitan Toronto area. 

In an associated pilot project, a class 
of fifteen youngsters of immigrant 
parents, whose primary difficulty is 
learning a second language, is receiving 


COMPUTE 

GENERAL 

HANDICRAFT 

SUPPLIES 

FOR 

SUMMER 

CAMPS 


i for Handicraft it's J^emiscraft * 


PLEASE COME IN AND SEE OUR 
CAMP CRAFTS . . . THEY WILL 
INTEREST YOU! 

• • • 

EM. 3-5206 

284 KING ST. WEST 
TORONTO 2B, ONTARIO 


Toronto , Canada , Winter 1969 


45 



special attention. These children show 
some of the characteristics of the cul¬ 
turally deprived pupils, but do have a 
facility in their native tongue. Research 
of this kind is especially important in 
Toronto with its large immigrant popu¬ 
lation. Children of immigrants fre¬ 
quently flounder around elementary 
school for a few years, at a loss to adjust 
to a new culture and a new language; 
this new course will make a special at¬ 
tempt to help them. 

Motivation 

The Applied Psychology Department 
is also conducting research into mo¬ 
tivation, since without it obviously a 
pupils’ learning and performance will 
suffer. Projects have been started to 
determine, for example, whether a series 
of “psyhcological benchmarks” could be 
discovered in a child’s makeup. These 
benchmarks might indicate to educators 
when a child is ready for formal teach¬ 
ing and also give some clues about the 
order in which materials ought to be 
taught. This study could produce im¬ 
portant results for curriculum design 
and for the types of experience to be 
provided for a child. 

Several staff members of the same 
department are studying the question 
of how a child sees his place in the 
world generally and specifically in a 
learning situation like the classroom. 
They are also trying to find out how 
the child acquires his attitudes about 
himself, his work, and the adults about 
him; and how he tries to “get through” 
to others. Two other sets of studies are 
concerned with ways of coping with 
low levels of academic aspiration of 
students or with students who are ob¬ 
viously performing below their capacity. 
Group counselling is used to help the 
student work out for himself why he 
isn’t doing as well as he can, and to 
help him realize that often the remedy 
lies within his own grasp. The Depart¬ 


ment has a well developed programme 
to train school guidance counsellors. 
Many Ontario teachers take practical 
courses during the year and in summers 
to learn how to become more sensitive 
to the needs and unexpressed desires of 
adolescents and assist in guiding their 
energies into constructive channels. 

A new department of the Institute 
focuses on the application of sociology 
to education. Staff of this department 
hope to find out what are the social 
factors involved in school drop-out and 
retention, educational aspirations and 
achievement, social change, creativity 
and moral development. Clearly, these 
are key elements in contributing toward 
an increased understanding of the con¬ 
flicts between young people and the 
society in which they find themselves. 

Disabilities 

Many young children are never able 
to cope successfully with school work 
because of some specific disability. They 
may have trouble learning to read, be 
unable to adjust emotionally, or suffer 
from impaired vision or hearing. Re¬ 
search into their problems is carried out 
at the Institute’s Educational Clinic. 
A wide variety of approaches and mod¬ 
ern equipment, including videotapes, is 
used to investigate these problems and 
find ways to help the children overcome 
them. A new project in the Clinic 
attempts to improve the learning of 
English by adult immigrants through 
evening sessions in the schools. The 
programme is based on a theory that 
social factors play a large part in the 
learning of a second language. 

The Institute’s Department of Adult 
Education approaches learning prob¬ 
lems from a different point of view. In 
Canada, there are thousands of adults 
whose education is minimal or who find 
that the education they do have is insuf¬ 
ficient. This group is a potential source 


46 


Canadian Camping 


of conflict: many of its members are 
perhaps unemployable, seriously mal¬ 
adjusted and potential welfare cases. 
Adult education provides a constructive 
way of alleviating these conditions. The 
Department is also attempting to pre¬ 
vent problems from developing by the 
services and assistance they are making 
available to the new Community Col¬ 
leges for Applied Arts and Technology. 
These community schools are vocation¬ 
ally oriented and provide post-secondary 
educational opportunities for thousands 
of young people who do not go on to 
university but who need specialized 
skills in today’s technological society. 

Personnel 

Because the field of adult education 
is so new, it is extremely difficult to find 
qualified teachers and counsellors. The 
Adult Education Department is trying 
to fill this vacuum by offering a special 
certificate programme which includes 
studies of adult education from a variety 
of points of view. This course is open 
to mature men and women who are 
engaged in or expect to be engaged in 
some responsible position of adult edu¬ 
cation. They may lack the academic 
requisites for post-graduate work but 
show evidence of being able to tackle 
advanced studies. They are accepted in 
this programme, after careful screening, 
for an academic year of full-time study. 
The course stresses discussion of specific 
problems and attempts to relate the 
academic course content to the particu¬ 
lar needs of each student. 

The Department of Educational Ad¬ 
ministration carries out research and 
development programmes into the org¬ 
anization and social context of schools. 
Some studies arc trying to convey a 
proper understanding of the role of the 
school in transmitting the social goals, 
values, and attitudes that are formed in 
society. One study is investigating the 


situation of lower class children in 
Ontario schools, to see whether they are 
at a disadvantage, and if so, what 
remedies can be found. 

Another important area of study 
being carried out by Educational Ad¬ 
ministration is that relating to school 
district size and educational quality. In 
an era when schools and school districts 
are becoming larger and larger, it is 
important to see whether this increase 
in size has a good or bad effect on the 
quality of the education and on the kind 
of student produced. 

In addition to all the studies and 
projects described above, the Institute 
is engaged in a wide range of pro¬ 
grammes designed to improve the 
quality of teaching and learning in 
particular subjects. Investigations have 
been made into the teaching of English, 
mathematics, history and geography, 
the creative arts and science to see 
whether more challenging courses of 
study can be devised. 

The inescapable fact of change, 
which is affecting every aspect of our 
modern society, has produced a rapid 
shifting of one way of thinking and 
organizing our lives to another. Educa¬ 
tors must equip the child to face, and 
cope with, an environment which every 
day incorporates new and startling facts. 
OISE was formed in an attempt to 
keep education abreast of this accelera¬ 
tion of change, and it must discover 
practices which are not only adequate 
now, but adequate twenty and thirty 
years from now. The research being 
carried out, since it approaches the 
problem of educating youth from many 
angles, will perhaps over the course of 
the years yield some solutions to the 
pressing problems we experience today. 


Toronto , Canada, Winter 1969 


47 



“You mean you really have camping 
in the Northwest Territories?” — “Why. 
oi course; we’ve been at it for four 
years.” 

It All Started 

It all started in 1965 when a local 
member of the clergy from Yellowknife 
decided to take a group of “toughies” 
into the bush for a couple of weeks. 
The children really loved their experi¬ 
ence in the great outdoors, and wished 
to see it repeated the following summer. 
So, things began to swing, and an or¬ 
ganized camp was formed. At the same 
time, another little town called Fort 
Resolution had heard about this and 
wanted to do the same. In no time at 
all, both towns of Yellowknife and Fort 
Resolution had their camps ready for 
the summer. Leaders were hired from 
the “South” and also from the local 
areas. A workshop was held so that 
leaders would be better prepared for 
their summer duties. Another town 
named Hay River, the “Hub ‘o’ the 
North” caught wind of what was brew¬ 
ing, and decided to send some repre¬ 
sentatives both to the workshop and to 
the Yellowknife camp. Here again, the 
local clergy were promoting the whole 
idea of camping. Yet these camps were 
intended to be non-denominational, and 
they were run in such a fashion. 

1966 was the summer when the 
camps really got under way with some 
kind of structured organization. The 


Camping 

in the 

North 


by Jean-Paul Paiinaude 


town people started to get interested 
and realized that they as well as the 
clergy should do something for the 
children. Finally, the N.W.T. Camping 
Association really became a community 
endeavour. Committees were formed, 
money was raised and co-operation was 
extended from all sorts of organizations, 
mostly from the N.W.T. Department 
of Recreation. Where do we stand 
now? Well, there art' two existing asso¬ 
ciations: Young Campers Association 
(Yellowknife) and Centennial Campers 
Association (Hay River). Fort Resolu¬ 
tion has abandoned the camps for 
special reasons. 

Why? 

One would wonder why we would 
have camping in the North. “But don’t 
you live in the bush?” People in the 
Northwest Territories live in small 
communities where they have a school, 
store, post office, theatre, church. The 
comforts of life are close to what people 
enjoy in the “South”. So the children 
are not that used to living in the bush. 
It is a good thing for them to get out 


48 


Canadian Camping 



during the summer and enjoy the riches 
of Nature. The terrain is just grand in 
the North. Scores of lakes, trails, ani¬ 
mals and the temperature is great. 
During the months of May and June, 
we enjoy nearly total daylight all the 
time. The sun merely sets in order to 
jump up again. It is quite hard to play 
“night games”! Also, many Indian chil¬ 
dren do not necessarily live in the best 
of conditions in their homes. This is a 
fact, and we must face it. An occasion 
to go camping can mean three square 
meals a day, good sleep, great physical 
exercise, training in various skills which 
are often dormant and need only to be 
awakened by some friendly instructor. 
So, as you can see, it is not ridiculous 
to have camping in the North. It‘s the 
best country in the world to have it. 
Even the Scouts decided to have their 
1968 Jamboree at Prelude Lake, one- 
half mile away from our Yellowknife 
camping area! 

According to the Terrain 

The camps in the N.W.T. are geared 
according to the terrain, which will 
require a special type of camping. It’s 
no use thinking about horseback riding 
(no horses here) or sailboating (water 
is too cold) or surfing (small lakes) or 
water skiing (we have great waters for 
canoeing). Everything is concentrated 
on the great outdoors: hiking, canoeing, 
archery, swimming, riflery, games in the 
bush, campfires, outdoor cooking. We 
stress hiking and canoeing very much: 
the boys leave for two or three days at 
a time. The hikers will walk out to a 
determined point where they will meet 
the canoers. Then they trade places. 
The hikers paddle back and the canoers 
hike back after passing the night to¬ 
gether on some point quite far away 
from camp. Of course, the fishing is 
fantastic. This allows a menu of fresh 
fish whenever you want it. There are 
also a few ducks which come along and 


ducks arc delicious. This summer, we 
even enjoyed eating bear meat: three 
bears came around our camp and we 
had strict orders to kill them on sight, 
which were not necessarily unpleasant 
orders! 

Our Set Lip 

Our material set-up consists of tents 
of all shapes, sizes and colours, though 
Hay River .(their camp is at Sandy 
Greek) has wooden cabins. Tents arc 
cool at night, but they make it possible 
to change the campsite within a few 
days. Access to the camps is easy in 
Yellowknife since we have a road 
(twenty-one miles) but in Hay River, 
the Great Slave Lake is the normal 
route; or else we walk four miles in the 
bush in the company of flies and mos¬ 
quitoes. The latter arc mean creatures. 
They do not let us rest and it takes quite 
a while to get used to them; but it’s all 
part of camping. Knowing that the 
set-up is of this nature, you would 
understand that we have running water 
(we run one-half mile to get it), show¬ 
ers (the only showers we know are rain 
showers) and the rest of it. But it’s just 
great. The contact with nature is very 
intimate and you must learn to make 
the best use of what you have. The boys 
gradually learn this as the camp goes 
on and it’s a great experience for every 
one of them. They find the first days at 
camp pretty rough; but they do not 
want to go home once camp is over. 

The Staff 

Members of the staff are primarily 
recruited in the Territories themselves 
though help from the outside has al¬ 
ready been sought as a launching power. 
The members of the committees want a 
local staff and they now have a core of 
leaders which they hope to keep. Stu¬ 
dents have already been sent to Banff 
or Edmonton for special training in 
various branches such as canoeing swim- 


T or onto, Canada , Winter 1969 


49 




SYMBOL 

of 

CONVENIENCE 

in 

FOOD SERVICE 

LILY CUPS LTD. 

300 DANFORTH ROAD 
SCARBOROUGH, ONT. 


FREEZE-DRIED FOODS 

In lightweight moisture proof 
packs. The best trail and trip¬ 
ping foods. Quick cooking and 
good to eat. Used widely and 
thoroughly tested in the Can¬ 
adian North. 

MEATS, VEGETABLES 
FRUITS, AND MAIN DISHES 

Available in case lots 
or small quantities 

SEND FOR PRICE LISTS 

Freeze-Dry Foods Ltd. 

579 Speers Road 
OAKVILLE - ONTARIO 


ming, orienteering. The native staff 
members arc very gifted in nature activ¬ 
ities such as Hiking and canoeing for the 
hoys and games and leather handicraft 
(beadwork and moccassins) for the 
girls. Approximately one-half of the 
camping personnel is Indian: no segre¬ 
gation here. All counsellors and direc¬ 
tors learn to live under the same roof 
in sometimes hard conditions of life. 
It’s a “share and share alike” job. 
These counsellors are always on duty 
during the whole period of the camp. 
There is a day off in between camps 
only! It’s exacting though a great occa¬ 
sion to test the sense of responsibility. 
Up to date, the experience has proven 
more than satisfactory: teamwork is the 
password, and because of teamwork, we 
are able to overcome our problems of 
rough weather, cold water, flics and 
mosquitoes, certain “racial problems” 
which might arise during the camp 
since we have a mixture of Indian, 
metis and white, all coming from dif¬ 
ferent milieux. 

Camping in the North is a challenge 
and a pleasure. I am proud of all that 
exists here, and hope that there will be 
even more co-operation between the 
North and the South in the future. We 
have so much to learn from each other. 


Whon Onlorint/ 

PLEASE REMEMBER 


our 

ADVERTISERS 


50 


Canadian Camping 





oun FitiEJXMPS . . . 


T/i t! Advertisers 

J. H. Beattie . 41 

Beaver Lumber Go. 38 

Bi-Mor Frozen Food Service, Ltd. 33 

Canada Foam Products Ltd. 51 

Canada Health and Accident 

Assurance Corporation . 39 

Cash’s Name Tapes . 35 

Continental Casualty Co. Outside Back 

Federation of Ontario Naturalists . 35 

Freeze-Dry Foods Ltd . 50 

Gibbons Foods Limited . Inside Front 

Stanley A. Grant Ltd. 33 

Hobart Manufacturing Co. Ltd. 51 

John Leckie Ltd. 36 

Lewiscraft . 45 

Lily Cups Limited . 50 

McAinsh and Co. Ltd. 37 

Pool Man . 37 

Quaker Oats Co., Ltd. 31 

Starkman Chemists Ltd. 30 


Wrought Iron Range Co. of Canada Ltd. 37 


Established Camp 
FOR SALE, LEASE or RENT 

200 acres, private lake. Dining Hall 
will scat 70. Present sleeping accom¬ 
modation 36 campers plus staff . . . 
cabins and tents. Phone or write to 
D. H. Coombes, 1407 Royal York Rd., 
Apt. 107, Weston. 241-9700. 


NEWS FROM THE PROVINCES 

Mrs. W. L. Russell of the British 
Columbia Camping Association Execu¬ 
tive telLs us that during the past season, 
visitation teams went to fourteen camps, 
and had two long sessions trying to sort 
out a method of rating these. 

Teams of two or three persons used 
a questionnaire which they supplemen¬ 
ted with a written report. These reports 
arc now to be turned over to a Review 
Committee of three. It was quite diffi¬ 
cult to find people for this who arc 
knowledgeable about the camping field 
and yet not directly connected with the 
camps that were visited. But I think 
we have them now and I hope they 
don’t find the job too arduous.” 

We have asked Mrs. Russell if, when 
the Review Committee has completed 
their task, we might have something for 
“Canadian Camping” on their findings. 


HOBART 
Food Machines 

> Meat Choppers 

Vertical/Cutter Mixers 
S Mixers Potato Peelers 
/ Food Slicers 

< Power Meat Saws 

) Steakmasters Portion Scales 

c Dish and Glass Washers 

S Food Cutters 

) Food Waste Disposers 

S Power Dicers Patty Machines 

/ Instant - Hot Water Dispensers 

< Pre-Rinse Sprays 

\ • 

< The Hobart Manufacturing 

i[ Company Limited 

c Don Mills, Ontario 

S BRANCHES ACROSS CANADA 

' ——I — ■ 


THE VERY BEST 
SOLID FOAM 
MATTRESSES 

for 

TRAILERS COTTAGES 
BOATS CAMPS 

at the lowest prices 


FOAM SALES REG'D 

47 CROCKFORD BLVD. 
SCARBOROUGH, ONT. 

751-0561 


Toronto, Canada 3 Winter 1969 


51 





































Campers learn through satisfying their 
curiosity. This can be dangerous play 
when they disregard the camp safety 
measures you demand of them. This 
season, with the addition of Contincntars 
Camp-Guard Insurance, your campers 
and staff can be insured against the 
medical expenses they might incur as 
a result of an illness or an unexpected 
mishap. 

And to let parents know that their child¬ 
ren will have the necessary coverage to 
help pay any medical bills during the 
camp stay, use the Camp-Guard Seal of 
Approval on all your promotional ma¬ 
terial. It identifies your camp as having 
the finest accident and sickness medical 
expense protection available to campers. 

Investigate today how Continental’s 
Camp-Guard can help promote and pro¬ 
tect your camp. Contact your local 
insurance agent or broker for a. detailed 
explanation of the plans. 


DANGEROUS 

PLAY! 


this CAMP is PROTECTED 



ACCIDENT and SICKNESS 
INSURANCE 


FREE 

f 1 Send for your 
serins of C.imp-Guard 
Safety Posters. 



CONTINENTAL CASUALTY COMPANY 

INDUSTRY MARKETING & SPECIALTY DIVISION 

MONTREAL • TORONTO * WINNIPEG • EDMONTON • CALGARY • VANCOUVER 









