Canadian 

camping 

Ifc FOR A HAPPY CAMPER 



I have come to describe to you Camp Utopia - the happy camp for the happy 

child. I am, I think, a realist and although everything that I suggest cannot pos¬ 
sibly apply to every camp, much will apply to most. I must tell you at the outset 
that I do not believe in too much permissiveness, comfort or indulgence, but I do 
believe that research in the behaviorial sciences has shown us that a regimented, 
authoritarian and punitive setting is not good either. 


I must begin long before any campers, staff, facilties or programmes are in 
existence. The Camp Management must be clear and comfortable with its purposes and 
philosophy. It must be explicit as to its values — upon these things rests the se¬ 
lection of everything else. I am sure that you will tell me that you agree; that 
this is obvious; that you have all this in your camp. If you do you are unusual, 

(cont. on page 8 ) 

OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OFFICIELLE 

THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION / L'ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU CANADA 



SUITE 203, 102 EGLINTON AVENUE EAST 
TELEPHONE (416) 488-7345 


TORONTO, ONTARIO VI4P 1E1 


Vol. 30 No. 6 
December 1978 








President Emeritus 



The Executive and Board of Directors of the 
Canadian Camping Association are happy to an¬ 
nounce the appointment of Mr. F.M. Van Wagner 
as President Emeritus of the Canadian Camping 
Association 

Mr. Van Wagner's letter in response to a let¬ 
ter from Mr. Jack Pearse, the President of 
C.C.A. is reproduced below. 


Mr. F.M. Van Wagner was President of 
the Canadian Camping Association from 
1958 to 1961, and was made an Honourary 
Member in 1974. He shared in the found¬ 
ing of the C.C.A. in 1936 and is one of 
its Charter Members. The next year he 
organized the Quebec Camping Association, 
English Section and became its first 
President. 

Mr. 'Van' Wagner was born in Hyde Park, 
New His childhood, spent on a farm, 

gave him a permanent and enthusiastic in¬ 
terest in outdoor living and led to a ca¬ 
reer in physical education. In 1925, be¬ 
cause of his interest in camping, he es¬ 
tablished Camp Nominingue, a boys 1 camp 
situated on Petit Lac Nominingue in the 
Laurentians. 

Through his teaching and example Mr. 
'Van' has been a major influence on the 
lives of thousands of young people, with 
whom he has shared his knowledge and 
skills. Among the many honours he has re¬ 
ceived is the Award of Merit from the ACQ- 
QCA Provincial Board and the Centennial 
Medal, conferred in Canada's Centenary 
year in recognition of his valuable ser¬ 
vice to youth and camping in the nation. 



<!/ yti-fL. 

„ 

7* 

SlrKjf AL-t 

/Uus 

Slsl — 

iUnr-Ci. Ax^Af d{ tjuAlu^x/ / 


cl/ 



O' 







2 



Editorial 

Youth has always wanted to explore the unknown, to have thrills which come 
from risk taking; the chance to try their abilities against the impossible. 

Wilderness camoe tripping provides young people with these opportunities. 
Organized camping has provided them with basic knowledge and skills in living 
and travelling in wilderness areas and always made an effort to insure that trips 
are staffed by highly qualified, well trained and mature leaders. Many camps have 
set up base camps from which their older more experienced campers may take off. 
Time is taken at the base camp to rehearse the skills which will be needed. The 
trip plan is checked; the maps of the route are studied; emergency procedures re¬ 
viewed, food and equipment are checked. 

The particular risks and danger should be identified as far as is possible. 
This information is added to the knowledge which the trippers should have about 
the water, the wind, the terrain, providing shelter and maintaining health and 
safety. 

The tragedy at the beginning of the wilderness trip attempted recently in 
Quebec brought camping people up short. We have become somewhat complacent during 
the past ten or twelve years assuming our performance standards are satisfactory 
and well known to all camp people to the point where they will protect all of us. 

A review of this incident indicates this is not so. Even government regulations 
are not broadly known nor publicized well enough. 

In the 1920s a camp in Southern Ontario had a similar experience at Balsam 
Lake. Out of that came the slogan "Hang on to the canoe — for three days and 
three nights". It was also the spur to camp people to establish standard strokes. 
Let us use this latest disaster to review our practices, procedures and trai nin g 
for wilderness travel. 

A starting point might be to identify the risks in adventure tripping. If 
we know what we are up against we can then judge what we have to do to reduce or 
eliminate them. The Canadian Camping Association could use this inf ormation to 
set standards and Governments could base their travel regulations on them. 

We have a responsibility to young people to help provide the knowledge, 
skills and attitudes about wilderness travel which will make it possible for 
them to explore and experience great adventures in this their homeland. Such 
travel will never be "safe". There will always be hardship, rough going, maybe 
even occasions when they have to fight to survive. But should we have it other- 


GO EAST.OLD MAN 

by jackpearse 

Air Canada was very kind to issue an air pass so that I could visit with camp¬ 
ing folk in Eastern Canada- 

Ify tour began in St. John's, Newfoundland, with the C.C.A. Board meeting. 
ELIZABETH WEGENAST, the current President and BARB TAYLOR, the Past- President 
of the Newfoundland and Labrador Camping Association did a marvelous job of organi¬ 
zing our meeting as well as a Conference at Burry Heights Camp which they labelled 
"An inning and an outing". The "inning" consisted of a session on how to set up a 
year-round outdoor education centre. JANE McCUTCHEON, our C.C.A. Secretary and 
GEORGE SIMONETT, the Treasurer, joined with me in conducting this session. The 
"outing" was a series of hikes away from Camp to look at the terrain, study the rocks 
and search out some edible wild. A great day! It was particularly exciting to meet 
at Burry Heights Camp because that is where the N.L.C.A. had its very first meeting 
in the late spring of 1969. 

In addition to ELIZABETH WEGENAST, we welcomed other new Board members to the 
Board meeting — SHANLEY PARKINSON, Manitoba's President; LAVERNE JANTZ, Saskatche¬ 
wan's President; STAN TALESNICK, representing Ontario. We had some special guests - 
KEN WILLIS AND RENE ROUSEAU, Presidents of the two Quebec Sections and C.C.A. Past- 
President, JOHN LATIMER. They were joined by the C.C.A. Executive, Nova Scotia's 
GEORGE MATTHEWS, New Brunswick's BOB CAMERON, Alberta's LOU LANIER, ROSAIRE CORBIN 
of the French language Committee, BARB TAYLOR and KARL BENNE from Recreation Canada. 

At lot of items were covered in the Board Agenda beginning with a nation wide 
request for all Camps to submit statistics for our use with the Immigration Depart¬ 
ment, for the national promotion of Camping by DEREK WALSH and the P.R. Committee 
and for a C.C.A. National Directory which will be assembled by GEORGE MATTHEWS and 
the N.S.C.A. C.C.A. Past-President, DOUG MCEWEN, is working at the revision of our 
Constitution which hasn't happened since STAN WILD did it in 1971. 

The Winter Woodmanahip Pilot School takes place from February 8th to 12th at 
Camp Kandalore and we are pleased to get that project underway. KIRK WIPPER and 
the Woodsmanship Committee have just about completed the Woodsmanship Leaders' 

Guide which is being translated by ROSAIRE CORBIN and, at long last, we are print¬ 
ing certificates for successful candidates from our Woodsmanship Schools. Our Com- 

(cont. on page 5 ) 



GO EAST .. •. 


OLD MAN (cont. from page 4) 

mittee on Liaison with National Agencies, under the able guidance of LARRY BAGNELL, 
is planning a get-together in the New Year of National Agency representatives to dis¬ 
cuss mutual interests and concerns in camping. JOHN LATIMER attended the Board meet¬ 
ing and, as Chairman of National and International Conferences Committee, urged us 
in his dynamically, enthusiastic way to support the International Convention in 
Minneapolis which is being jointly sponsored by the C.C.A. and the A.C.A. JOHN has 
been asked to be guest speaker at the closing banquet of the Convention and we are 
very proud of him. The Convention takes place from February 19 to 24, 1979. 

Our National Office is moving sometime before the 31st of March to 1806 Avenue 
Road in Toronto. We will continue to share with the Ontario Camping Association. 

JEAN FUNK has her Leadership Training Committee alive and flourishing. In January, 
they expect to complete a model for C.I.T. and Counsellor Training which could be 
used by Provincial Associations and individual camps. 

Those lucky students in the schools of Regina are going to have Vice-President 
EILEEN MAYOTTE in their Counselling Department full-time and what a job she will do 
for them. Unfortunately, this means that EILEEN has had to relinquish her C.C.A. 
Executive Post. * In the 10 years she has been involved in the National Camping scene, 
no one has given greater service or dedication to Canada's campers. She has truly 
been our "First Lady" and thousands of campers and camp leaders are eternally grate¬ 
ful to you-EILEEN MAYOTTE. 

The Board has submitted to the Federal Government our requests for their fi¬ 
nancial support of our programs and projects for 1979-80. Our submission totals 
more than $86,000.00 and we have our fingers crossed that Fitness and Amateur Sport 
will be able to contribute to that extent so that we can continue our work. 

On January'25th the C.C.A. Executive will be in Banff to meet with all our 
Alberta Camping friends and we are really looking forward to that great event. 

At the conclusion of the Board meeting, BARB TAYLOR took us on a tour of the 
Avalon peninsula and Cape Spear which is as far east as an old man can go and still 
be in Canada. Then I headed for Halifax where I was met by GEORGE MATTHEWS whose 
wife MARGARET, had prepared a delectable dinner of scallops which we enjoyed with 
the Matthews' fine family. The following evening, there was a meeting of the N.S.C.A. 

people and we were treated to a great program - a super dinner at the Citadel Inn, 

coloured slides of Nova Scotia Camps, a rousing sing song and good fellowship. I 
was particularly pleased to have visits with two N.S.C.A. Past-Presidents DAVID 
BOSTON and TOM CREIGHTON. The N.S.C.A. has produced an excellent camp song book 

(cont. on page 10 ) 


5 





Convention Headquarters 

Radisson Hotel Downtown, Minneapolis, MN 


Special Convention Room Rates 

All Singles: $26.00 

All Twins: $34.00 

All Doubles: $34.00 


Registration Fee 

Member full-time registration will be approximately $100. 
This will include all convention activities Wednesday, February 
21 through Friday, February 23. 


CONVENTION WEEK 
TENTATIVE DAILY 
SCHEDULE 


Feb. 18-21 

Kindred Group Meetings announced as of 7/1/78: 

Feb. 18-21 The Salvation Army 

Feb. 19-20 Seventh-Day Adventist Church 
Feb. 19-20 National Catholic Camping 

Feb. 19-21 Girl Scouts of the USA 

Feb. 19-21 Private Independent Camps 

Feb. 19-21 YMCA 

Feb. 20-21 United Methodist Camp Leaders 

Feb. 20-21 Handicapped Campers of America 

Feb. 18-21 

Recertification seminar for ACA Certified Camp Directors. 


Feb. 19, 20, 22, 23 

Managerial courses leading to ACA Certified Camp Director 
(CCD) status. All four Managerial Workshops are scheduled to 
be offered in conjunction with the 1979 National Convention in 
Minneapolis, two prior to the convention and two during the 1979 
convention. 

Feb. 19 Health Service Management 

Feb. 20 Food Service Management 

Feb. 22 Business Management (Seminar) 

Feb. 23 Site and Facility (Seminar) 


Wednesday, Feb. 21 

Convention opens 

10:00 a.m. Exhibits open 

2:00 p.m. Opening General Session 

3:30 p.m. Workshops, Interest Sessions 

8:00 p.m. ACA Endowment Fund Benefit Program 


nORTHLMID 

IS 

CHILinC 

Minneapolis, Minnesota 

Full-time Registrati 


Co-Sponsored by 


Ameri 

Canad 


Radisson Hotel Downtown 



Thursday, Feb. 22 


7:30 a.m. 

Buffet Breakfast Session 

8:30 a.m. 

General Session—Keynote Speaker 

9:30 a.m. 

Exhibits open 

9:30 a.m. 

Interest Sessions. Tours. Seminars 

10:45 a.m. 

Interest Sessions 

2:00 p.m. 

Seminars continued. Workshops, Interest 
Sessions, Tours 

4:00 p.m. 

Open Hearing for Council of Delegates 
Meeting 

Evening 

On the town 

Friday, Feb. 23 

7:30 a.m. 

Buffet Breakfast Session 

8:30 a.m. 

General Session—Keynote Speaker 

9:30 a.m. 

Exhibits open 

9:30 a.m. 

Interest Sessions. Seminars. Tours 

10:45 a.m. 

Interest Sessions 

12:30 p.m. 

Seminars continued. Workshops. Interest 
Sessions. Tours 

3:30 p.m. 

Open Hearings for Council of Delegates 
Meeting 

7:00 p.m. 

Closing Banquet—Keynote Speaker 

Saturday, 

Feb. 24 

8:00 a.m. 

Council of Delegates Meeting 


6 



Marian Larsoi 


Jack Murdoch 





INTERNATIONAL 

CONVENTION 


February 19-24, 1979 

n: $100.00 approx? 


:an Camping Association 
an Camping Association 

Special room rates: 

Single $26.00 Twin or Double $34.00 




PRELIMINARY 

PROGRAM 


Interest Sessions (Approx. 1 Hour) 

Flexible Programs for Special Needs Campers 

Spiritual Emphasis at Camp 

How Children Learn 

Family Centered Camping 

Cross Age Camping (youth-*‘grandparent*’) 

Environmental Education Program 

Effective Involvement of Volunteers 

Assessing Camp Program Effectiveness 

Building Interpersonal Skills 

Earth Covered Camp Buildings 

Self Esteem 

Values Clarification 

Readiness for Program Change 

Day Camp Issues 

Research Reporting Sessions (papers from various sources) 
Meeting the Needs of Inner City Campers 



Tours 

The New Minnesota Zoological Gardens 

Nature Centers 

Winteri/cd Camps 

Arts and/or Science Centers 


Seminars (Approx. 6 Hours) 

Preservation of Lands—Whose Decision? 

Special Needs Campers—High Risk (asthmatics, physi¬ 
cally disabled, diabetics, etc.) 

Dealing with Discipline 
Peer Counselor Training 
Environmental Education Programs 
The First/Second Year Camp Director 
Grantsmanship 
Self Esteem 

Site and Facility Management (ACA CCD Managerial) 
Creative Thinking 

Business Management (ACA CCD Managerial) 


Workshops (Approx. 3 Hours) 

Boards and Committees 
Recruiting 
Orientation 
Role/Functions 
Purposes/Objectives 
Voluntcerism 

Communications 
Community Relations 
Public Relations 
Parent(s) 

Camper 

Staff 

Staff 

Recruitment 

Training 

Supervision 

Policies 

Records 

Director 

Maintaining a personal identity 
Professional growth 
Keeping the camp job in perspective 
Humanizing camp relationships 

Personal 

Time Management 

Continuing Education 

Skills 

Values 

Security 

Professional Development 

Environment 
As A Model 
Regulatory 
Education 
Public and Private 
Social and Physical 


Program Chairperson, 1512 Transit Ave., St. Paul, MN 551,13 
Convention Chairperson, 2037 N. Snelling Ave., St. Paul, MN 55113 


7 







FOR A HAPPY CAMPER 


(cont. from page 1 ) 


for there is great, great confusion in camping today, on the operational level re 
the relationship of purpose and how the camp is staffed and how it operates. 


If you think that camp is a significant and valuable experience — a summer 
vacation plus other important factors — it stands to reason that you must have 
the right campers, the right staff and the right programme for the purpose. 

If you do not screen the youngster intake, group them by plan and programme 
for the purpose, I can only conclude that you are fooling yourself in thinking tha t 
you are clear and comfortable about your purpose. If you employ callow young staff 
and give them a once over lightly pre camp session, I must conclude also that you 
do not mean your purpose. For your value should be what you care about, really 
want, set store by and will strive for. For example, the climate of a camp means 
more than the hot sun — cabin groups should be developed in which: 

a) a playful, fun-loving, zestful spirit is characteristic; 

b) co-operation, friendliness and getting along with others are practised} 

c) the basic needs of campers for personal worth and achievement, belonging 
and status are recognized and met; 

d) wherein responsibility and self-governing provide practice and growth in 
self-reliance and responsibility; 

e) reasonableness, open mindedness and inter-personal competence characterize 
the way discussions are carried on and decisions made. 


The central factor in such an educational process — the PLUS most camps state 
that they seek —— where personal growth, social, moral and religious development is 
sought, lies in the interaction between persons in the situation. 

This leaves it up to you to determine who these persons are, who leads them, 
and the situations in which these objectives can be reached. 

A.H. Maslow poses for us a hierarchy of need to be met in any situation in or¬ 
der to achieve any of your objectives. 

PLUS: 

1. Survival — good food -— enough water, safety and health precautions —— 
freedom from hurt. 

2. Safety needs — these are basic security items - freedom from fear, anxi¬ 

ety and worry. 

3. Love, Acceptance and Approval — this is a critical area. 

4. Esteem needs — favorable reaction from others; self-respect — self-image - 
self-adequacy. 

5. Self-realization needs — to become one's best self — to realize one's 
capabilities. 

_ , . (cont. on page 9 ) 


8 




(cont. from page 8 ) 


It FOR A HAPPY CAMPER 


One cannot be helped in one until there is a minimum satisfaction in the others. 

Now we can begin to see that if we have certain kinds of facilities and staff, 
the level of needs evidenced in a camper may clearly indicate that we have no busi¬ 
ness accepting him, or that he needs special attention. 

We can see that intake can also help us in grouping, so as best to develop our 
objectives. 

We can see the need for staff selction and training — and I stress this— 
really thought-out programme. 

Mind you, I have no quarrel with a camp wherein the major purpose is fun. I do 
object to slap-happy fun, and I do object to fun for staff or director with no regard 
for the camper’s level of fun; and I do object to fun that teaches evil values and 
that is destructive. 

Whatever your purpose — pure fun and/or sunshine and good food — we know that 
it cannot be achieved without understanding. This requires, in my opinion, an aware¬ 
ness of the developmental levels of children with which we work. No one can have much 
fun, or gain any plus value, if the experiences to which he is being exposed are inappro¬ 
priate to the age level. 

It is well to not hear that liking children is not enough. One needs both the 
educated heart and the educated mind. The counsellor needs to be able to think as well 
as feel; to know as well as to like. 

Some years ago Bettleheim wrote- Love is Not Enough. Love them and limit 
them. A child who is not limited is a deprived child, a frustrated child, a rejected 
child and. hence and unhappy child. 

Recent studies indicates that groups must have goals — toward which they work¬ 
groups and individuals without tasks are likely not to develop personalities or to 
grow. This has lead some youth workers today to suggest that all groups with which 
we work must have some definite purpose towards which they work. 

One of the key factors, which I think we neglect, is that of programme. 

Many camps engage a dietitian — why? Because a trained dietitian knows which 
foods in what combinations produce a balanced diet for bone building, muscle building, 

energy etc. Then they hire a programme director. His or her skill in devising a pro¬ 
gramme menu should be as precise as the dietitian's. You would be appalled if your 

(cont. on page 11 ) 



GO EAST _ OLD MAN (cont from page 5 ) 

which they are planning to "put to music 11 . They are working on the National Direc¬ 
tory and MURRAY WICKWTRE, PAUL POTTER AND NORMA LLOYD, among others, are busy plan¬ 
ning the C.C.A. Annual Meeting and Conference in May. The Camping Movement is really 
booming in Nova Scotia. 

The next day was Hallcwe * en and I spent it in Moncton with SANDY AND BOB CAMERON. 
It was really fun, although it got to be embarrassing when people kept asking BOB to 
take off his Hallowe’en mask when he wasn’t even wearing one. It was interesting 
to discover from BOB CAMERON and BILL REEVES that the N.B.C.A. and the N.B. Hostel¬ 
ling Association plan to collaborate on establishing a joint office to give them a 
solid base from which to carry on the two programs. Great!. 

It was on to Montreal to be met by ROSAIRE CORBIN who took me for a brief 
visit with old friends, TONY SHGRGAN and YVES BEAUREGARD at the Society for Crippled 
Children and then to lunch with BOB MAISONNEUVE, RAYMOND HADF. and LUCILLE CARDINAL. 
Magnifique! 

The afternoon was spent participating on a panel concerning staff recruitment, 
training and supervision with BARB PATTERSON, RON BRAVERMAN and BOB LAZANIK organized 
by KEN WILLIS. HERB FINKELBERG and the English Section of Q.C.A. BOB MAISONNEUVE 
chaired a superb dinner meeting of A.C.Q.- Q.C.A. en deux langues at which JOHN 
LATIMER and I received beautiful woodcarvings done by RENE ROUSSEAU. Tres beau ! 
Past-President ZAVE ETTINGER drove me to the LAZANIK’S where I had a wonderful 
visit with LEE, BOB and their two boys, an overnight stay and BOB'S chauffeuring to 
the airport early the next morning. 

Ottawa was the next stop. All day meetings with CAL STOTIN and LOUIS RACINE 
the Immigration Department, then with KARL RENNE our illustrious and supportive 
Consultant with Fitness and Amateur Sport. The last day of my Eastern swing was 
spent with MARY ROY in the C.C.A. Office, as I recounted the great feeling I have 
for the superb camping and wonderful people of Eastern Canada, HORACE GREEDY, not¬ 
withstanding, whenever anyone says to me "Go east — old man", I won't tarry a mo¬ 
ment, but will be on my way to another memorable learning experience among the 
folks who have given themselves to the development of Camping in Canada. 

A Knowledge of Nature 

We are grateful to the Royal Bank of Canada for supplying us with enough 
copies of their Monthly Letter Vol. 59 No 7. July 1978 to be sent out with 
each copy of this newsletter. We hope you find "A Knowledge of Nature" in¬ 
teresting and thought provoking. 



10 



Winter Leadership School 


At last the Winter Woodsmanship Pilot School that has 
been planned for so long is about to become a reality. It 
will be held at Camp Kandalore, near Minden, Ontario from 
Wednesday evening, February 7 until Monday evening February 
12, 1979. 

The course will provide practical experience in winter 
trail skills, winter non-mechanized travel, winter ecology, 
and winter safety; including winter cooking, clothing, ski¬ 
ing, showshoeing, snowstudies, winter wildlife and winter 
first aid. The underlying theme will be the principle of 
living in harmony with the environment and communicating 
this sensitivity to others. 

Candidates are limited to 20 from across Canada, and 
each Provincial Association has been allowed a certain 
number of places. Travel, accommodation and meals will be 
covered by a grant from the Fitness and Amateur Sport 
Branch, of the Department of National Health and Welfare. 

If interested in attending the school, please check with 
your Provincial Association. 


ALL CAMPERS' CLOTHING AND 
BELONGINGS 

should be marked for easy identification— 
losses are costly. 

CAMP LINEN AND EQUIPMENT, TOO, 
should be marked to avoid confusion 
and loss. 

NAMES OR NUMBERS CAN BE 
SUPPLIED. 

Order CASH'S NAME TAPES from 
department stores and other dealers — 
or direct from 

CASH'S 

CANADA LABELS LIMITED 

BOX 70, STATION S 
MONTREAL. QUEBEC 

PRINTED NAME PRICES 
6 doz. $4.00 9 doz. $4.50 

12 doz. $5.75 24 doz. $7.00 

No C.O.D.s. Please mail cheque or 
money order. 

Please include appropriate 
Provincial Sales Tax. 


It FOR A HAPPY CAMPER 


(cont. from page 


dietitian served constant large helpings 
of sweets and starches because "that's 
what the children like" — or served 
spicy delicatessen nightly even though 
many campers awoke with cramps and bad 
dreams. 

To the extent that one understands 
the characteristics of activity can one 
select programme for the purpose or for 
reaching your objectives. 

The task is one of selecting activi¬ 
ties with maximum impact in the desired 
direction. Even if you can't do that, 
at least you can avoid programme that 
is harmful. It strikes me that often 
the institutions that are most interes¬ 
ted in the spirit pay far more atten¬ 
tion to the bodily needs than to the 
spiritual ones in the way they run 
their camps. 


To have a happy camper there must be 
a happy camp. A happy camp is based 
upon three major factors: 

1. Common agreement with the goals. 

2. Conviction that the leadership will 
help us reach our goals. 

3. Agreement that the methods being 
used will get us to where we want 
to go. 

This is the essence of morale. 


This is the text of an address made by 
Alan F, Klein, Professor of Social Group 
Work, University of Pittsburgh, to a 
C.C.A. Conference in Montreal in I960. 

We believe it is as relevant today as it 
was when it was presented, nearly twenty 
years ago. 


” 11 



j 

Maintenance 

musician 

wanted 

WINTERTIME TIPS 

Natural gas tanks should be filled up 

A small, traditional, private boys' camp 

in Ontario needs a musician for the 

now. This could save quite a bit if 

summer of 1979. 

the price goes up as it usually does. 

Position involves organizing singsongs 

Don't forget to leave piano tops open. 

It helps let the dampness out and de¬ 

and accompanying on the piano, planning 

ters deterioration of the inner workings. 

"skit" nights, setting up Sunday evening 

Eavestroughs should be cleaned of leaves 

"musicales", as well as contributing 

to prevent ice damage and rust. 

musically in other ways which would suit 

Frig doors should be left open to pre¬ 
vent mildew. 

the person's talents. 

Light Watch - this is a good time to 


give some thought to whether you really 

WRITE: 

need as powerful bulbs in the lodge, 

Musician 

cabin and other buildings. Just a few 

Canadian Camping Association 

changes (using 60 watt bulbs rather 

102 Eglinton Ave., W. # 203 

than 100s can save you money. 

1----- 

Toronto, Ontario M4P 1E1 


691 09N 
•^uo ‘uopuoq 
*Zi *3dy “3AV Pubjo 601 
‘uoe^o^nooj*; etuep sspjf 


6ITC-800 NSSI 


i3i dfrw oiaviNo 'oiNoaoi 

J.SV3 3 fl N3 A V N 01N 11 03 ZOl - £0Z 3ims 

vpouD.t np sdwvo sop uoijoposso 
uoijdijossd fhmlium umpvuno 















