
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 

CANADIAN CAMPING 


December If Hi /. Toronto, o d 


















Qteetmg,* 

Jxom gibbon* 

Specialists 


in 

The people who try them 

continue to buy them 

Food Service 

again and again — 

to 

and have for more 

Camps 

than 40 years 

Everywhere 

We thank you for 

Jelly Powders 

your many favours, 

Pudding Powders 

Instant Puddings 

hope for your continued 

Cake Mixes 

goodwill 

Fruit Rickeys 

and 

Table Syrup 

WISH YOU THE BEST 

Hot Chocolate 

Flavourings 

Soup Bases 

Fruit Pie Fillings 

Marmalades 

Jams 

Camp-Rite 

OF EVERYTHING FOR 

CHRISTMAS AND 

THE NEW YEAR 

GIBBONS 

FOODS LTD. 

MANUFACTURERS OF QUICKSET DESSERTS 

49 Advance Road, Toronto 18, Canada. 239-1421 




T.EATON Cto CO. 

190 YONGE ST. TORONTO. CANA DA. 


the confidence of our customers 
is our greatest heritage! 

Eaton's of Canada has grown in size 
and importance on customer-confi¬ 
dence—on the faith the buying public 
places not only in the selections and 
values, but in the descriptions found in 
Eaton Advertisements. One of the first 
steps in customer-confidence is the 
realization that what an Eaton ad says 
about goods and prices can be trusted. 

It we should have any doubts concern¬ 
ing claims of quality, the merchandise 
must be tested and the statements ap¬ 
proved by our Research Bureau before 
the descriptions may be used. More 
important, perhaps than anything else 
in establishing customer-confidence in 
Eaton's advertising is the policy laid 
down by the founder of the firm— 

"Goods Satisfactory or Money Refunded" 

EATON’S of CANADA 


Toronto, Canaria, December 1964 


3 







Jkdaraft 

Extra QUALITY PAYS . . . 

and that is vouched for by the steadily growing number of camps whom 
we are privileged to supply year after year. 

Our sincere appreciation and we extend to all this time-honoured greet¬ 
ing of the Season 

MERRY CHRISTMAS 
AND A 

HAPPY NEW YEAR 

o Specialized Foods • Specialized Service 

FOODCRAFT LABORATORIES LIMITED 

58-60 Duchess Street, Toronto 2, Ontario 

Direct Service Across Canada 
Member — Canadian Camping Association 


NOW 


PUS FOR CAMPS 

Wise camps use Stafford's pie filling and bake a 
pie in HALF THE TIME. Stafford's pie filling is 
ready-to-use. Just pour it in the pie shell, and pop it 
in the oven. Out comes a tender, flaky pie no camper 
can resist, with his favorite filling—pineapple, mince¬ 
meat, raisin, raspberry, blueberry, cherry, apple, boysen- 
berry, apricot, peach or strawberry and rhubarb. 

Do as the wise cooks do. Keep your campers full and 
happy with Stafford's delicious fruit pies. 


Stafford 



Stafford 

apple pie 

r fiMwa 



FOODS LIMITED 


BRANCHES: 37 Hanna Ave. - Toronto 3 

MONCTON, MONTREAL, WINNIPEG, CALGARY, EDMONTON, VANCOUVER 


4 


Canadian Camping 












New Quantity Recipes — New Quantity Recipes featuring a variety 
of baked goods using Aunt Jemima Regular are now available. 

Deep Frying Folder — A new instruction folder featuring two new 
batters for deep frying are also available. 

Quaker Packs — Various Quaker products are packed in individuals, 
regular packs, and quantity packs. 

Just write or phone the Quaker Sales Office in your district for further 
details covering service through Local Jobbers, and available Service Helps, or to: 

FOOD SERVICE DEPARTMENT 

THE QUAKER OATS COMPANY OF CANADA LIMITED, PETERBOROUGH, ONTARIO 

Suppliers to the Food Service Field 


1 or oil to , Canada, December 1964 


5 













REDBOOK MAGAZINE 

Average Net Paid Circulation 4,000,000 
Camp Directory in issues January thru June 
Assures you of readers with camp age children 
Attract New Prospects — Remind Old Friends 

For information and rates address: 


REDBOOK'S CAMP DIRECTOR 
McCALL CORPORATION 


230 Park Avenue 


New York 17, N.Y. 


Tel. Murray Hill 6-4600 


A 


No matter whether your campers 
bicycle, canoe, hike or ride horseback, 
you must have the best in Camping 
Insurance. And there’s only one BEST 
— sold by the pioneers in this essential 
coverage. 

Our policies cover 


• Polio And Dread Diseases • Medical Reimbursement 

• Epidemic • Accidental Death 

• Dismemberment • Tuition Refund 



Best in 
Coverage 


THE SIGN OF GOOD SERVICE 


Best in 
Service 


VERMONT ACCIDENT INSURANCE 

Rutland, Vermont, U.S.A. 

Member American Camping Association 


6 


Canadian Camping 






► Join camp directors throughout the nation who 
regularly rely on advertising in Parents* Magazine 
for productive inquiries and desirable enrollments. 


► parents’ magazine’s total readership, according 
to recognized national survey, is in five million 
homes with more than ten million children. These are 
the families who read and use parents’ magazine 
for reliable guidance in child care and development, 
including camp and school selection. 


For rates and details, write or phone 
Josephine E. Chrenko, Director, 

School and Camp Department 
parents’ magazine 52 Vanderbilt Ave. 

New York, N. Y. J0017—Murray Hill 5-4400 


CIRCULATION 
2 , 000,000 
ABC GUARANTEED 


FREE 


BIG 


NEW 


It's Canada's Most Complete Leathercraft Catalog 

IT'S TANDY'S NEW BIG 80 PAGE CATALOG 
PLUS EXCITING NEW XMAS SUPPLEMENT. 
RUSH COUPON TODAY TO: 

TANDY CLARKE & CLARKE 


P.O. BOX 340-FD 


BARRIE, ONTARIO 


Nome .. 

•V 

& 

k Address 

H 

1 City . 


Prov. 


Toronto, Canada, December 1964 


7 




























BETTER BOOKS FOR 

BETTER CAMPING 

Selected Resources 


_Camp Counseling ....$6.25* 

........Campground Atlas of the 

United States and Canada .$3.00 

__Campground Guide . $2.95 

..Camping for Emotionally 

' Disturbed Boys ....75c 

.Camping Skills for Trail Living ....$4,95 

_The C I T in Resident Camping ....$1.25 

........Complete Book of Camping -,....$4.95 

_..Family Camping (Sunset) .$1.75 

..{.....Family Camping 

? (Better Homes and Gardens) -$2.95 

..{.....New Understandings 

of Leadership .$3.50 

_Silva Compass.Type 6 Rambler—$3.50 

_Stalking the Wild Asparagus .$1.95 

_The Book of Outdoor 

Winter Activities .$4.50 

........The Young Sportsman’s 

Guide to Camping .$2.50 

........Training Camp Counselors 

in Human Relations .$3.75 

_Three Minute Devotions 

for Boys and Girls .$3.50 

.Wilderness Cookery .$3.95 


A.C.A. Publications 

.Bibtiography of Studies and Research in 

Camping and Outdoor Education—Single 
copies $1.50; 4*9 copies $1.25; 10 or more 
copies $1.00.* 

.Bibliography of School Camping and 

Outdoor Education _ 50c 

..Campcraft Instructor’s Manual .$1.50 

_Convention Highlights _Members $2.00 

Non-Members $3.00 

.Research Monograph No. 1 

(Therapeutic Camping) .~. 35c 

.Spotlight on Drama in Camp—Single 

copies 75c; 2-24 copies 60c; 25-49 copies 
50c; 50 or more 40c.* 

♦Denotes no membership discount. 
Postage charges will be additional. 


A.C.A. Members are entitled to 
a 10% discount (except where * 
appears on order form). Please 
fill in membership information 
in space provided. 

Region. Section_ 


Name . 

Street . 

City, Zone, Prov. 

Amount Enclosed: $. 

Please Send Invoice. 

American Camping 
Association 

-1 nc.- 

BRADFORD WOODS 
MARTINSVILLE — INDIANA 



Yes, we have adopted a new name. 
For nearly 20 years you have known 
us as Galloway Publishing Co., and 
as publishers of CAMPING MAG¬ 
AZINE, official publication of Ameri¬ 
can Camping Association. 

Now we have broadened our services 
to camping, and changed our name to 
Galloway Corporation, so that it more 
accurately represents the new breadth 
in our activities. 

In 1965, in addition to continuing 
publication of CAMPING 
MAGAZINE, our organization 
will further serve by managing the 
commercial exhibits of AGA Regional 
Conventions in Kansas City, Mo., 
Columbus, Ohio, and Syracuse, N.Y. 
In 1966, we will manage the exhibits 
for ACA’s National Convention in 
Chicago. 

Still further services to camping— 
and to YOU—are in the planning 
stage. We will announce them as they 
become operational. 

GALLOWAY CORPORATION 

- Serving Camping Since 1946 - 

PLAINFIELD, NEW JERSEY 07060 


8 


Canadian Camping 
















































CANADIAN CAMPING 


Vol. 17 DECEMBER 1964 No. 1 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Leisure — Its Meaning and Implication.Charles K. Brightbill 10 

The C.I.T. Training Programme.Hart M. Devenney 12 

Pioneer Days of Camping..C. F. Plewman 15 

Catalogue of Articles from December 1963 to June 1964. 17 

Your Camp Director's Calendar..W. E. Yard 18 

Camps—and The Ontario Human Rights Code.Dorene E. Jacobs 21 

L’Amie de ma Tente.Joyce Bertram 24 

An Indian Version of the Twenty-Third Psalm. 26 

Cross Canada Centenary Canoe Journey. 27 

Paint, Stain or Varnish?.David Palter 28 

Cover Cut — Canadian Girl Guides, courtesy Toronto Globe and Mail 


CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 

4322 - 4a Street S.W., Calgary, Alberta 
CH. 3-6457 

Honorary President — Miss Mary Edgar 

Executive Secretary 


Mrs. Jean Boettgcr 
4322 - 4a Street S.W., 
Calgary, Alberta 


Past Presidents 

Taylor Statten, Toronto 
Dais L. Gass, Montreal 
Anne I. Vail, Montreal 
W. E. (Ted) Yard, Toronto 
Irwin Haladner, Toronto 
F. M. VanWagner, Montreal 
Kenneth H. Murray, Montreal 

President 

Dr. Don Smith, Edmonton 

Senior Vice-President 

Jack F. Way — Vancouver 

Vice-Presidents 

Mill Marilyn Fane, Vancouver 
Mrs. Lois Pinfold, Winnipeg 
Clifford Labbett, Toronto 
Mrs. Alta Kahn, Montreal 
Mrs. Betty Campbell, Halifax 
Miss Eleanor Logan, Edmonton 

Editorial Committee — 


Secretary 

Miss Eleanor Logan, 
c/o Y.M.C.A., 

Edmonton, Alberta 

Treasurer 

Rev. Don Maync 

Publisher , Canadian Camping 
Fred Haiblen, 

170 Bloor St. West, Toronto 
924-7117 

Editor 

Mrs. Dorothy M. Douglas, 

26 Park Ave., 

Oakville, Ont. 


Don Groff, Barry Lowes, Margaret Govan, Katherine Anson, Kirk Wippcr, W. E, 
Yard, Eanswythe Flynn, Joyce Bertram. 


“CANADIAN CAMPING" IS PUBLISHED FOUR TIMES A YEAR BY THE CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 
CO. FOR THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION AT 170 BLOOR ST. WEST. TORONTO, ONTARIO. SUB¬ 
SCRIPTION PRICES: MEMBERSHIP IN THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION INCLUDES CANADIAN 

CAMPING: TO NON-MEMBERS. 78 CENTS PER COPY, S2.7S PER YEAR, $8.00 FOR THREE YEARS. 

AUTHORIZED AS SECOND CLASS MAIL. POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT, OTTAWA. ONT., AND FOR PAY¬ 
MENT OP POSTAGE IN CASH. 


Toronto y Canada, December 1964 


9 

















LEISURE 


It s Meaning and Implication 


Reprinted from the 
Magazine RECREATION 
of January 1964 

Be ing the digest of a paper given at the 
45th National Recreation Congress. 


by Charles K. Bright bill 

head of the Department of Recreation and 
Municipal Park Administration at the 
University of Illinois, Urbana. 


Perhaps because everyone thinks of 
himself as king of his own leisure 
domain—and that is the way it should 
be—everyone has a different concept of 
leisure. Plato said that the three most 
worthwhile things in life, justice, 
beauty and truth, could not be defined. 
Perhaps the same is true of leisure. 

1 think I understand those who sec 
leisure as being free from the demands 
of work, as a status symbol, as an instru¬ 
ment for social control, as a spiritual, 
aesthetic, or cultural condition, or a 
state of calm, quiet, contemplative 
dignity. I certainly see its relationship 
to “attitude of mind,” although one’s 
attitude is linked mainly with time — 
time beyond that required, organically, 
for existence and subsistence; discre¬ 
tionary time when the feeling of com¬ 
pulsion should be (I do not say is) 
minimal. 

I see leisure as an opportunity; and 
there can be no choice, no judgment, 
no attitude and. hence, no freedom, 
without opportunity! Nor can there 
be opportunity without time, which, to 
me, is the overriding component of 
leisure. In this light, “attitude” has as 
much to do with what a man con¬ 
siders and how he goes about his work 
quite as much as what he deems worth¬ 
while in his leisure. As Harold 
Wilensky says, “A man’s work routine 
places a heavy hand on his leisure 
routine. Attitudes in one spill over 
into the other. Killing time at work 
can become killing time in leisure. ’ 


I agree with much of what Sebastian 
de Grazia claims: that we could do a 
better job of controlling our lives, that 
our man-made materialism blocks the 
way to full, harmonious existence, and 
that too often we overlook the virtues 
of solitude and tranquility. Yet, has 
de Grazia's case been overstated? Has 
he, like the Scotsman, carried rocks to 
the pinnacle of the hill to raise its 
elevation? Are we to believe that 
leisure can be a substitute for work? 
Does everybody work only for money? 
Is it a fact that Americans have no 
leisure? Is the leisure which many 
people have the kind they do not 
want? The kind grandpa gets when 
the company makes him retire before 
he is ready, or the kind a fellow gets 
when he is displaced by a machine? 
Is it free time and leisure which 
men seek, or purpose, meaning, and 
fulfillment ? 

Many Americans have a great deal 
of discretionary time, and millions 
more will have enforced leisure on 
their hands whether they want it or 
not. as we move into a leisure-conscious 
and probably a leisure-centered society. 
We have 168,000 fewer auto workers 
than we had ten years ago, 200,000 
fewer steel workers than six years ago; 
500,000 less miners than eighteen years 
ago and 670,000 fewer railroad workers 
than in 1947. Automation will elimin¬ 
ate twenty-four million jobs in this 
decade. Secretary of Labor Willard 
Wirtz is rightfully worried because we 
are running out of use for people but 


10 


Canadian Camping 




at the same time producing more 
people. How do you abolish the job 
without abolishing the man? The 
enforced leisure outlook, of course, 
assumes that we are not going to blast 
ourselves from the earth or tear each 
other up because we cannot face the 
inevitable adjustment of a changing 
world. Many people will have large 
blocks of off-the-job time and will be ill 
prepared to use it for their own well 
being. 

II we must take our cues from the 
old, let’s listen to Aristotle who warned 
that, “A society unprepared for leisure 
will degenerate in prosperous times.” 
Let’s concern ourselves with leisure as 
an opportunity. The ancients were 
apprehensive about the misuse of leisure 
and called it acedia or spiritual torpor, 
a deadly sin. Incidentally, many of 
them worked hard, designing and build¬ 
ing their temples, creating their art, 
dev eloping their physical prowess, and 
being in public service! Not everyone 
lingered in the agora to ponder the 
glories of Golden Athens. 

Technology and affluence have given 
us the opportunity, beyond toil, to dis¬ 
cover ourselves. They have also given 
us materialism, functionalism, competi¬ 
tion. and conformity, each with some 
good, but also with some bad. With 
all of our abundance, and, ofte?i among 
too many of us, with the gross misuse 
of leisure, we have bred boredom, 
alcoholism, mental disorders, divorce, 
delinquency, and suicide. It would be 
interesting to know just how many 
people today seek life’s meaning in the 
split-level house, the eye-level oven, 
and the income-level country club. I 
am not so bereft of common sense to 
believe that the wise use of leisure, 
universally, would smother all of these 
maladies, but I do want to turn spot¬ 
light on the core of the matter—how 
we can help people acquire the values, 
the desire, the skills, and the oppor¬ 
tunities to use their free time in ways 


which will contribute to their own full 
personality development, their inner 
satisfaction and stability, either with or 
without the organized resources of 
society. The apogee of leisure is 
reached when personal satisfaction is 
achieved. Ii it is mostly through suffer¬ 
ing, through hardship and trial and 
tribulation that we conquer and 
advance, how then do we “make the 
easy life” contribute to our self-fulfill¬ 
ment? To our growth as individuals 
and as a nation? 

The endless, repeating cycle of past 
civilizations has been well expressed in 
the “seven stages of man.” They are 
that man moves from bondage to faith, 
from faith to courage, from courage to 
freedom, from freedom to abundance, 
from abundance to selfishness, from 
selfishness to apathy, and then down 
again from apathy to bondage. Can 
we be the first to reverse this trend? 
If we are to be thrust into an existence 
in which the absorbing attractions of 
work, as we have known them in the 
past, are removed, how shall we answer 
John Steinbeck who said that he had 
four impressions of the American people 
gained in the last few years? First, 
a creeping, all-pervading immorality: 
second, a yearning for something un¬ 
known: third, the violence, cruelty and 
hypocricies symptomatic of a people 
which has too much; and fourth, the 
surly, ill-temper that afflicts human 
beings when they are frightened? Can 
we expect to find the solutions in 
a leisure-centered society for Arnold 
Toynbee who indicated not one but a 
number of the Western democracies 
when he said, “Advanced societies tend 
to substitute license for liberty, irre¬ 
sponsibility for obligation, comfort for 
challenge, and self-interest for brother¬ 
hood”? I say that the affluent society 
is, and will be, increasingly faced with 
the problem of how to prevent its 
people from colliding with themselves. 

turn to page 34 


' Toronto , Canada , December 1964 


11 


THE C.I.T. TRAINING PROGRAMME 

HOME GROWN COUNSELLORS 


by Hart M . Devenney, Director 
Ontario Camp Leadership Centre 


(This article is based on Mr. Devenney’s 
presentation at the Ontario Camping Associa¬ 
tion Conference, March 1963.) 


When one starts on a discussion of 
leadership, it is well to do two things: 
(a) clarify your terms and (b) search 
the literature and survey what others 
have, or are saying about leadership. 

What is a Leader? 

To ask the question, “What is a 
leader?” may seem trite, but do not 
answer it too quickly. Although leader¬ 
ship can be learned, it would be foolish 
to expect that anyone can be a leader 
in all things. There will be different 
kinds of leaders. Even the words 
“leader” and “leadership” will mean 
different things to different people. 

Is “leadership” of the same quality or 
type in all cases? When is a “leader” 
leading or exerting leadership? When 
he is first in a race? When he is 
strongest in his group? When he has 
the highest rank? When he is an in¬ 
structor? Does it always mean that the 
individual with the “mostest” or the 
“bestest” will be the leader? 

Leadership is exerted when those who 
follow are influenced in some way to 
cause them to do three things: (a) to 
listen to you and to agree on common 
goals (b) to follow you or your advice, 
and (c) to go into action on these goals. 

All three of these facets must be 
present before it can be said that 
leadership is in operation or is effective. 
There can be no leadership without 


followers and there can be no effective 
leadership unless the followers go into 
action. 

In respect to the camp leader’s 
efforts, we must think of his influence 
in respect to the changing of behaviour 
patterns as far as campers are con¬ 
cerned. In general, behaviour is change¬ 
able (positively or negatively) in respect 
to: 

Knowledge 

Values 

Skills 

Relationships 

If behaviour is to be changed posi¬ 
tively, i.e. for the better, there must be 
voluntary acceptance of the leader’s 
suggestions, instructions or directives. 
But behaviour can also be changed in 
a negative fashion through the im¬ 
position of that which is feared, e g., a 
loss of prestige, status, salary, punish¬ 
ment (either physical or mental), and 
so on. 

Leaders or those who aspire to be 
leaders must be prepared for opposition, 
for hard work, for self-sacrifice, and 
must be prepared to help others, “He 
that would save his life must lose iti”< 
This is scriptural, but it is also a good 
leadership dictum. 

The place of leadership in camping 
can be interpreted in tenns of guidance; 
that is, its role is to help campers grow 
healthfully in every aspect of living and 
to help them learn how to solve their 
problems insofar as these are related to 
camping. 


12 


Canadian Camping 



For the campers’ part, they may do 
this in two ways: (a) with direct 
positive guidance, (b) with indirect 
guidance—when they are permitted to 
make their own decisions and thus 
accept the responsibility for them and 
the ensuing consequences. 

It would be a fair presumption then 
that unless we were to leave these two 
opportunity areas to chance, as far as 
campers are concerned, some special 
sort of preparation is needed for those 
who would undertake such responsi¬ 
bilities. 

Home-grown Leadcrship 

Insofar as the individual camp is 
concerned, and if we consider the con¬ 
cerns of the individual camp only in 
terms of leadership, recruitment and 
leadership needs, there is, and perhaps 
always will be, a continuing problem. 
And these are the reasons: 

(a) Because conditions and situations 
especially critical to individual 
camps during and immediately 
after World War II made it neces¬ 
sary for a sort of “do-it-yourself” 
plan and furthermore, the problem 
of maintaining the “interest and 
loyalty of older campers” in a time 
of stress, strain, uncertainty and 
challenge was tied into these 
rationalized plans. 

(b) Because all of you can remember 
the not too far distant years when 
the older camper could command 
more than attractive remuneration 
during a summer’s employment so 
that camping no longer seemed to 
be of importance. The “do-it-your¬ 
self* plan provided “a continuity 
of experience, growth, status, re¬ 
sponsibility and recognition of 
older campers which could be 
weighed against the fleeting attrac¬ 
tiveness of commercial financial 
success”. 

(c) Because the third step was not long 
in coming, for the possibility of 


“bridging the gap from camper to 
counsellor” within the camp locale 
was within sight. 

(d) And so we are led right up to the 
“successful outcome” of the steps 
where well-developed home-grown 
programmes of leadership develop¬ 
ment are planned for within the 
camp structure itself. It is now 
regarded as a “separate entity” 
and identifiable as any other part 
of the programme in camp. 

Before we go further, however, let it 
be said that this in-service junior coun¬ 
sellor training programme is only one 
successful, albeit a successful and utili¬ 
tarian, system. 

A Plan of Leadership Development 

What then about the future? How 
do we go about it? Far be it from me to 
place a blue print before you, because 
I think that such an approach is not 
only dangerous and presumptuous, but 
it can also be useless. 

Certain principles and suggestions 
might be helpful. I would like to think 
that these might fall into five areas for 
planning. 

A—Selection and Qualifications for 
entrance into such an in-service or 
home-grown scheme. 

The longer the experience and back¬ 
ground of the responsible individual is 
for the over-all camping picture, the 
simpler the conduct of the mechanics 
needed in setting up the programme 
will be. The more understanding of the 
need for desirable practices there is, 
the more important the development of 
good selection procedures will be and 
the qualifying lines for those entering 
such a home-grown programme as we 
are discussing will be more restrictive. 
Not just anybody can be a camp leader, 
although we still have many who pro¬ 
ceed on the assumption that if the 
body is warm, the road to success is in 


Toronto, Canada, December 1964 


13 



sight. As those of you who remember 
your Latin—“O mirabile dictu!” 

What I have said, therefore, boils 
down to the fact that there should be 
other criteria in a camp programme 
than merely age and longevity for 
eligibility to a home-grown training 
course. The camp director with an eye 
to the future will have some idea of a 
candidate’s possibilities from an exam¬ 
ination of the camper’s record at camp, 
his degree of readiness to assume re¬ 
sponsibility in keeping with his level of 
development, his obvious leadership 
potential, his known place of acceptance 
in his community, and his intellectual 
capacity to appreciate the aims and 
objectives of camp. Armed with this 
background, a director is ready to con¬ 
sider potential selectees. 

However, let me add a word here 
which might seem to refute the idea of 
home grown candidates. Since you will 
never be able to supply all your leader¬ 
ship needs (it will be the exceptional 
camp that can) don’t pass up the idea 
that outsiders can be invited to par¬ 
ticipate. “In-breeding” can be 
dangerous. 

B— Pre-Training Period —Some camps, 
particularly those with large enroll¬ 
ments, have a period of initiation or 
novitiate where a closer look can be 
taken at the selectees. 

C —Basic Types of Experiences —The 
length of time for home-grown leader¬ 
ship plans vary from one complete 
period through to a three-year period. 
The most recent statement of theory 
and practice by Eugene A Turner, Jr. 
suggests a two-summer programme. 

First Year — 

1. A satisfying experience with one’s 
peers—This might be in a special cabin 
group or groups where the C.I.T. would 
live and move and have his being. 

2. A broadening of his camp skills 
—Each C.I.T. would receive some in¬ 


struction, particularly in his weaker 
skills. 

3. A successful work experience— 
Each C.I.T. is rotated on several in¬ 
dividual or group tasks. 

4. A self-improvement and self- ap¬ 
praisal programme—(A stock taking of 
his assets and improving upon his weak¬ 
nesses) . 

5. Theory and techniques of leader¬ 
ship—(Here the C.I.T. would have an 
opportunity to participate in a reading 
programme at his present level of un¬ 
derstanding and in the discussion and 
practice of leadership skills). 

Second Year 

1. Self-appraisal and improvement— 
continued—Each C.I.T. works on his 
own leadership needs. 

2. Theory and practice of leadership 
—continued—Further reading and dis¬ 
cussion at a greater depth of required 
perception. 

3. Practical Experience in cabin lea¬ 
dership—The C.I.T. lives with a cabin 
group as a junior assistant, observing 
procedures, etc. 

4. Practical experience in programme 
leadership—The C.I.T. is assigned to 
his strong programme activity to ob¬ 
serve and assist the leader in that activ¬ 
ity with instruction and supervision, 

D—What should a Counsellor-in-Train- 
ing know at the end of his training 
period? In other words, what results 
or outcomes may we expect or look for 
from the trainee? A difficult problem 
to answer, but it would seem to me 
than any worthwhile plan should be 
phrased in terms of acceptable mini- 
mums and not necessarily in terms of 
completed expectations. 

What then may the young C.I.T. 
be expected to know and be able to 
use as a potential counsellor, about or¬ 
ganized camping? 

turn to page 31 


14 


Canadian Camping 



Here is a story of Ontario's first camp¬ 
ing for children . May we have stories 
from the other provinces? 


PIONEER DAYS OF CAMPING I 

C. F. Plewman 

Formerly YMCA camp director 
Founder of Camp Kilcoo 


Times change! It may be difficult 
for those who have entered organized 
camping of late to realize how great 
have been the changes since it all 
started. 

My first introduction to camping was 
in 1903 at the YMCA camp on Lake 
Couch idling. Though sixty years have 
elapsed, I still treasure a picture of 
myself taken by Wallie Forgie, and I 
still remember some of the old songs we 
used to sing. 

Surprising as it may seem, camps 
were anything but popular during the 
latter part of the nineteenth century. 
What camps there were — and they 
were mighty few and far between — 
had to combat the prevailing opinion 
that night air was bad. In those days 
people didn’t open their windows on 
retiring, they closed them. 

When the Ottawa YMCA in 1893, 
and Camp Temagami in 1900, began 
taking older boys to camp, they were 
really breaking new ground. Had we 
been in their directors’ shoes, we would 
have felt lonely without a camping 
association or even a group of directors 
with whom to discuss our problems. 
As for suitable literature, what little 
there was came from our American 
colleagues. 

Camping in these early days was 
restricted to boys, and then only boys 
over twelve years of age. As for girls, 
no one in their right senses would have 


thought of asking a girl to rough it in 
the out-of-doors; that would not have 
been becoming to a young lady in the 
Victorian era. In fact the ability to 
swoon at the right moment was con¬ 
sidered more of an asset than the 
capacity to endure hardship or stand 
one one’s own feet. 

It was in 1913 that I ventured out 
into this brave new world to direct my 
first organized camp for the Ottawa 
YMCA at Golden Lake, near Pem¬ 
broke. It was strictly a he-man affair 
for teen-aged boys with “nary a skirt” 
of any kind in sight, not even in the 
kitchen. To have taken any boy 
younger than twelve years old would 
have been frowned upon as real cradle- 
snatching, and to be perfectly honest, 
it would not have been a good thing 
because we were not geared to handle 
them. For instance, I was the camp 
director, doctor, nurse, business mana¬ 
ger and programme director all rolled 
up in one. If someone broke a leg, I had 
to set it; if he took sick I had to look 
after him. What was more, the nearest 
doctor was twelve miles away, and we 
were without a motor car or a tele¬ 
phone. The programme too was a bit 
on the rugged side. The average age 
of the boys was fourteen-and-a-half 
years, and there was a tendency to 
interpret “roughing it” as rough-hous¬ 
ing. They were a sturdy lot, I venture 

♦ 


Toronto, Canada, December 1964 


15 



to say physically hardier than the 
present generation. 

Competition in sports was very keen; 
there was no mistaking their will to win 
if that were at all possible. We used 
to take on some of the local baseball 
teams in the area, and it was hard ball, 
of course. One of these games was 
against Killaloe. It was a case of walk¬ 
ing about seven miles around Golden 
Lake in the morning, playing a local 
team that afternoon and then walking 
another ten miles back around the other 
side of the lake after supper. To do 
this we would leave about 9 a.m. and 
arrive back around 10.30 p.m. Imagine 
if you can, a modern group of teen¬ 
agers agreeing to do this, and even 
plaguing you to make the arrange¬ 
ments. While I think we used to overdo 
the competitive aspect in those early 
years of camping, one wonders if today 
we have not gone rather far in the 
other direction. 

Camps for boys had been operating 
for about a quarter of a century before 
the first Canadian camps for girls of 
which I am aware commenced in 1922- 
1925. However, my friends tell me that 
the Girl Guides began camping in 
1911, and that the Dominion Council 
Y.W.C.A. held a camp at Geneva 
Park, Lake Couchiching, in 1910. Since 
then girls* camps have grown in ever- 
increasing popularity, so much so that 
sending a girl to camp today is just as 
usual as sending a boy. The important 
thing to remember is that it took 
almost twenty-five years for parents to 
come round to considering camping 
appropriate for girls. I can well 
remember when Taylor Statten, who 
had pioneered in so many other direc¬ 
tions, decided in 1924 to operate a 
girls’ camp, ’’Wapomeo”, on the very 
same lake as his boys’ camp, with the 
idea of carrying out some inter-camp 
activities. One of his directors tried to 
disuade him exclaiming, “Taylor, it’s a 
mistake, it won’t work.” Well, it did. 
It was the thin edge of the wedge in 


breaking down the segregation of the 
sexes and the developing of co-educa- 
tional camps by 1933. 

It is important that we appreciate 
the sequence of these changes that have 
taken place since organized camping 
began in Ontario almost sixty-five years 
ago. Then, too, at the point of time 
when many of the camps were starting 
in Ontario, there was a sudden flare of 
interest and endeavour on the part of 
the “Y’s” and of the Protestant 
churches which resulted in the develop¬ 
ment of a four-fold programme for 
both boys and girls. Many of the early 
camp directors were involved in this, 
and as a result their thinking and 
experience permeated the early camps. 

These early camps had little by way 
of permanent buildings or quarters. A 
camp that was well off might have a 
central lodge and dining room with 
tents for sleeping. Many old timers 
argued that camps should not become 
too civilized. They would have been 
stunned had they walked into one of 
our modern camps. I just wonder if 
they would even have recognized it as 
a camp! Thirty years ago at Kilcoo we 
used to sing satirically of the day when 
we would have French maids. Well, 
we haven’t reached that state yet, but 
with electric lights, showers, flush 
toilets, a water system that might put 
some nearby town to shame, spring 
mattresses, sturdy cabins — we have 
come a long way. However, while striv¬ 
ing for refinements that make for a 
healthy environment, maybe we should 
try more than we do to maintain a 
woodsy, outdoor atmosphere that will 
provide a youngster still with that feel¬ 
ing of the romance and adventure of 
outdoor living. 

During these sixty-five years the 
emphasis in camping has moved from 
roughing it to the benefits of fresh air, 
the value of competitive sports, fun and 
activity, the importance of health and 

turn page 33 


16 


Canadian Camping 



CATALOGUE OF ARTICLES appearing in 
CANADIAN CAMPING 

Volume 16: December 1963 - June 1964 

In December 1963 issue of CANADIAN CAMPING wc published a Catalogue 
of all our articles' between 1949 and 1963. This invaluable Catalogue is available separately 
as a reprint at 25^ per copy. Please send stamps with order to the Editor. The following 
brings your Catalogue up to date. 


1. PHILOSOPHY 

What Makes the Difference?—Betty Campbell .June 1964 

Camping Imperatives for the Future—Howard G. Gibbs .June 1964 

Why I Direct a Camp—Mrs. Wayne Brush .Feb. 1964 

Recreation Leadership Must Stimulate Minds—Walter Kaasa .Dec. 1963 

2. STANDARDS 

Camp Safety—W. D. Smith .June 1964 

The Association in British Columbia—Lome Bowering .April 1964 

Counsellors Profit by Camp Visitations—M. Govan .Dec. 1963 

Turn Our Thoughts to Actions—Clifford Labbett .Dec. 1963 

3. STAFF AND TRAINING 

Leadership—A Major Dimension in Camp Effectiveness—Hedley G. Dimock ....April 1964 

Teamwork and Staff Relations—W. J. Eastaugh .April 1964- 

Counsellors Can Help Their Campers—Elsie Palter ....April 1964 

Are You Training Your Staff with Health and Safety in Mind— 

Joy M. Ballard, M.D.April 1964 

4. HEALTH AND SAFETY 

Camp Safety—W. D. Smith . ; .-.June 1964 

Are You Training Your Staff with Health and Safety in Mind— 

Joy M. Ballard, M.D.April 964 

A Tripping Fitness Programme—J. H. Ebbs, M.D.Feb. 1964 


5. BUSINESS PROCEDURES AND SERVICES 

6. BUILDING, PROPERTY PLANNING AND MAINTENANCE 

On Procuring a Campsite—Jack F. Way .Feb. 1964 


7. PROGRAMME 

Ideas for Special Programmes .June 1964 

Programme Planning—Vincent Craven .June 1964 

Wilderness Tripping—Wally Wright .Feb. 1964 

A Get-Acquainted Weekend for New Campers—W. E. Yard .Dec. 1963 

A Mothcr-and-Daughtcr Weekend—Helen E. Stewart .Dec. 1963 

8. NATURE AND CONSERVATION 

Hey-Ho! Up the Creek We Go—P. M. Taschercau . June 1964 

Baby Stinkers!—Catherine Van Wagner .April 1964 

Inspiration for Your Nature Programme—P. M. Taschercau .Feb. 1964 

A Hiking Programme at Camp—Dick Caswell .Feb. 1964 

The Axe—C. R. Blackstock . Feb. 1964 

The Pinecrest Woodcraft Programme—W. E. Yard .Feb. 1964 

Making Campcraft Palatable—Barry G. Lowes .Feb. 1964 

Be a Weatherman—H. C. Hedges .Feb. 1964 

Woodcraft and Outdoor Living Bookshelf—E. Flynn and M. Govan .Feb. 1964 

These Books are for You—E. Flynn and P. M. Taschercau .Feb. 1964 

9. WATERFRONT 

10. CANOEING 

Canoe Safety Practices—Kirk Wipper .June 1964 


Toronto, Canada, December 1964 17 



































11. DEVOTIONAL AND POETRY 


Sermons Under the Sun—Erik Braaten .June 1964 

Growing Days (Poem)—Mary E. Edgar .June 1964 

On Leading Worship—Margaret Govan .April 1964 

How to Plan Devotions—Y.M.G.A.April 1964 

Sermons Under the Sun—Mary Paton .Feb. 1964 

A Tree—Inspirational Message .Dec. 1963 

An Infection (Poem)—Mary S. Edgar .Dec. 1963 

No new articles under 


12. DAY CAMPING 13. SCHOOL CAMPING 14. WINTER CAMPING 


15. SPECIALIZED CAMPS 

Programme for Short Term Camps—Robert Chandler .June 1964 

16. UNCLASSIFIED 

Bibliography of Original Journals of Early Travellers 

on the Voyagcurs’ Highway .June 1964 

Canadian Centenary Journey .April 1964 

Books for Your Camp Library—E. Flynn, N. McKee .April 1964 

Among Ourselves—Anne Vail .Feb. 1964 

A Camp Caper—Chuck Griffith .Feb. 1964 

Among Ourselves—Everett Cameron .Dec. 1963 

Camp Capers—E. Flynn .Dec. 1963 



your Camp Director's Calendar 

by JV. E. Yard 

Y.M.C.A., Sault Ste. Marie, Ont . 

Editor’s Note: We believe the order in which the camp director undertakes 
these jobs may vary somewhat between private and other camps. But this makes 
a most helpful “check list” on which to build your own Calendar of the year’s 
most important jobs. 

January to June 
September to December 

JANUARY 

— Early mailing of camp folder and application v 

— Visits to homes of campers 

— Set dates for reunions 

— Prepare bulletin to campers v 

— Order stationery — include letterheads, acknowledgment forms, envelopes, 

statements, etc. 

— Prepare year-end reports and income tax statements, etc.^ 

— Arrangements with key staff people , 

FEBRUARY 

— Plans regarding maintenance schedule for year 

— Further staff arrangements and hiring of staff 

— Plans for counsellor training v 

— Initial contacts with suppliers 

— Review insurance of all kinds 

— Attend your Camping Conferencei 


18 


Canadian Camping 


















MARCH 

— Complete letter “Suggestions to Parents” 

— Consider fire equipment 

— Consider new menus with dietician 

— Plan staff meeting 

— Review job analyses for staff' 

— Further staff interviews 

— Detailed plans for spring maintenance 

APRIL 

— Spring check of equipment and supplies 

— Further staff interviews 

— Specific orders for: — Fuel 

Kitchen equipment 
Staple goods (food) 

General Supplies (expendable) 

(brooms, sweeping compound, chemicals, etc.) 
Programme and sports equipment 
Waterfront equipment 
Medical and First Aid supplies 
Articles for resale—uniforms, crests, etc. 

Mattresses 

MAY 

— Staff preparation 

— Finalize staff arrangements 

— Finalize transportation reservations 

— Finalize arrangements for doctor to be “on call” 

— Review programme plans and list suggestions for: — New techniques 

Supplies needed for 
new features 
Suggested staff and 
camper committees 

— Plan orders for initial deliveries of: — Milk 

Bread 

Vegetables 

Meat 

JUNE 

— “Opening camp” 

— Pre-camp staff conference—not a “work party” 

— Setting up staff committees 

— Setting calendar for seasons special events* 

— Detailed “first day” plans* 

— Arrange for photographer to be in camp at certain time during summer* 

( * some members of the Editorial Committee recommend these be done in May) 

SEPTEMBER 

— Send list of staff names and addresses to all staff 

— Send reports on campers to parents when request same 

— Letters of thanks to all staff and local people where co-operation has 

been available 


Toronto, Canada , December 1964 


19 



— Prepare inventory in all areas i.e. Sports equipment 

Food service equipment 
Waterfront equipment 
Programme equipment 
General Supplies 
Articles for resale 
Fuel equipment 
Stationery equipment 
Staple goods (food) 

_ This is the time to write up first draft of orders for next year 

_ Compile report based on your own recommendations and those received 

from staff reports 

— “Close” camp — storing supplies and battening buildings with care 
_ Write account of interesting project for Canadian Camping Magazine 

— Set date for all plumbing to be disconnected. 

OCTOBER 

— Father and Son or Mother and Daughter weekend? 

_ Set up fall and winter repairs and maintenance schedule 

— Check pictures for new folder 

— Prepare news letter to campers 

— Consider plans for next season, particularly if their implementation involves 

the need for more funds and consequent fee adjustment 

— How about a holiday now? 

NOVEMBER 

_ Further organization of plans for next year in view of this year’s 

recommendation 

— Staff and camper contacts 

— Further reports to parents 

— Folder to printers 

— Work on “long range plan of camp” 

DECEMBER 

— Christmas rally — campers 

staff 

— Christmas Greetings 

_ Camping Association activities—do your part! 

— Meeting with Senior Staff—for setting stage for initial staff arrangements 

for next year 

— Organize resource material of all kinds 

— Prepare mailings of folders and application forms to go out in the New Year 

— Order stationery (now or January) 


20 


Canadian Camping 



CAMPS 


and the Ontario 
Human Rights Code 


by Miss Doretie E . Jacobs, 

Education Officer, 

Ontario Human Rights Commission 


Having requested an inerpretation of the 
Ontario Human Rights Code as it pertains 
to children's summer camps, we present this 
article and would ask you to send to your 
editorial committee any questions it raises or 
any observations you wish to express on this 
important subject. 

* * * 

One of the most divisive and devas¬ 
tating forces in our communities today 
is the practice of discrimination based 
on race, religion or nationality. The 
effect of discrimination is to prevent 
large groups of people from living com¬ 
plete lives and contributing fully to the 
life of the country in which they find 
themselves living or to which they have 
come by choice. They are denied 
opportunities which are considered basic 
rights and offered without question to 
others in the same communities. 

In Ontario, it is public policy that 
every person is free and equal in dignity 
and rights without regard to race, creed, 
colour, nationality, ancestry or place of 
origin. The Ontario Human Rights 
Code embodies in legislation certain 
provisions designed to protect the rights 
of its citizens and residents in the 
specific areas of employment, public 
accommodation, and multiple housing. 
The Code has a two-fold aim: 1. To 
make secure in law the inalienable 
rights of every citizen; 2. To create a 
climate of understanding and mutual 
respect among the people of the prov¬ 
ince so that all will be afforded the 
unhampered opportunity to contribute 


their maximum to the enrichment of 
the whole community. 

The provisions of the Ontario Human 
Rights Code which have relevance to 
the owners and operators of summer 
camps are those relating to public 
accommodation and to employment. 
The Code states that it is unlawful to 
display or publish signs, notices or other 
representation indicating discrimination 
against any person or group of persons 
because of race, creed, colour, nation¬ 
ality, ancestry or place of origin. The 
Code further prohibits the denial of 
accommodation, services or facilities to 
anyone as well as discrimination against 
any person with respect to the quality 
of service in any place to which the 
public is customarily admitted because 
of race, creed, colour, nationality, an¬ 
cestry or place of origin. 

With regard to employment, the 
Code states that an individual’s race, 
creed, colour, nationality, ancestry or 
place of origin must not be determining 
factors in hiring or firing or in treat¬ 
ment in employment (including up¬ 
grading or demotion). Furthermore, 
there can be no reference made or 
preference stated, directly or indirectly, 
in application forms, employment ad¬ 
vertisements, or job interviews, nor can 
there be written or oral inquiries re¬ 
garding race, creed, colour, nationality, 
ancestry or place of origin, nor can any 
applicant be requested to furnish such 
information. 


Toronto, Canada, December 1964 


21 


Exempt from these provisions are 
exclusively religious, philanthropic, edu¬ 
cational, fraternal or social organiza¬ 
tions that are not operated for private 
profit, and non-profit organizations that 
are operated primarily to foster the 
welfare of particular religious or ethnic 
groups, as well as employers with staffs 
of less than five persons. However, 
many employers and institutions not 
legally required to comply with the 
Code have adopted a practice of vol¬ 
untary compliance with the spirit of the 
Code. More and more non-profit 
organizations in the province are on 
their own initiative bringing their hiring 
practices into harmony with the pro¬ 
visions of the Code and even, where 
possible, opening their membership and 
clientele to all persons without racial, 
religious or ethnic considerations. 


crimination in the province. At the 
same time, it assists members of ethnic 
and minority groups in becoming 
familiar with their rights under the 
Code and the action they can take if 
they encounter discrimination. The 
educational programme of the Com¬ 
mission is conducted by means of 
pamphlets and bulletins, speaking en¬ 
gagements, film showings, meetings, 
conferences and workshops with groups 
and organizations interested in human j 

rights. The research programme of the 
Commission consists of the encourage¬ 
ment and promotion of regional studies ^ 

by Ontario universities for the purpose 
of analyzing and documenting the ex¬ 
tent of discrimination against members 
of minority and ethnic groups in the 
areas of employment, public accommo¬ 
dation and housing. 


The Ontario Human Rights 
Commission 

The function of the Ontario Human 
Rights Commission is to administer the 
Ontario Human Rights Code through 
a three-fold programme of conciliation, 
education and research. Any individual 
who has reasonable grounds for believ¬ 
ing that he or she has been discrim¬ 
inated against with regard to any of 
the areas covered by the Code can file 
a complaint. 

The Commission then begins an 
immediate investigation and, if discrim¬ 
ination is indicated, makes every effort 
through a process of conciliation to 
persuade the party practising dis¬ 
crimination to change his policy. In an 
overwhelming number of cases, the 
process of conciliation is successful and 
a settlement is reached without re¬ 
course to a public hearing or court 
action. In its education programme, 
the Commission attempts to help the 
Ontario public understand the pro¬ 
visions of the Code and the role they 
can play in helping to eliminate dis- 


The Human Rights Code and 
Ontario Camps 

How docs the Ontario Human Rights 
Code affect Ontario camps? Primarily 
it applies legally to those camps which 
operate for private profit, using the 
usual media of advertising in order to 
reach the public, and not conducted by 
specific non-profit religious, ethnic, or 
social instiutions for the fostering of 
their own religious, ethnic or social 
welfare purposes. In the areas of ad¬ 
mission policy and applications from 
campers as well as in the hiring of 
staff, these camps come under the Code. 

This means that admission to these 
camps cannot be restricted on the 
grounds of race, religion, or nationality, 
Further, it is unlawful on campers’ 
application forms or in other admission 
procedures to make any inquiries into 
the race, religion, or nationality of pros¬ 
pective campers. Some camps maintain 
that it is important to inquire into 
campers’ religion in order to be able to 
notify parents of the religious services 
available in the vicinity. The Com¬ 
mission, however, takes the position 
that there are other ways of dealing 


22 


Canadian Camping 



with this. A camp could list all the 
types of religious services available. Or 
it could be left to parents who are con¬ 
cerned that their children attend 
religious services to inquire into the 
accessibility of the appropriate services. 

Similarly, in hiring camp staff, con¬ 
siderations of race, creed, nationality, 
place of origin must not enter into the 
employing and promoting of staff. 
Furthermore, there should be no speci¬ 
fication on these grounds in employment 
advertising nor should applicants be 
asked, either on application forms or 
during interviews, for information 
which would reveal their race, religion 
or nationality. 

Voluntary Compliance 

Summer camps have an invaluable 
opportunity to promote the principle 
underlying the Ontario Human Rights 
Code that all persons are free and 
equal in dignity and rights. It was 
mentioned above that those camps 
which are operated for non-profit re¬ 
ligious, ethnic or social purposes are 
legally exempt from the provisions of 
the Code. Attention was also drawn 
to the fact that many organizations 
which fall into this category have 
adopted a policy of voluntary compli¬ 
ance, conducting their operations in 
accord with the spirit of the Code. 
The Commission is well aware of the 
fact that many Jewish and Christian 
camps are already following a policy of 
hiring on the basis of ability and hence 
have on their staffs persons of other 
religious persuasions than their own. 
This is a most heartening development 
which in the Commission’s view is to 
be highly commended. 

Human Rights Education As A 
Part of Camp Programming 

Furthermore, in their programming 
and in the attitudes of their counsellors, 
camps can do much to further appre¬ 
ciation of human rights amongst 
campers. Camp boards could make it 


a matter of established camp policy that 
an educational programme on human 
of their camp programmes. There are 
rights be carried on as an integral part 
excellent films available which deal 
with problems of prejudice and dis¬ 
crimination and which would be suit¬ 
able for campers. There is, in addition, 
an abundance of educational materials 
useful for this purpose. Human rights 
programmes in camps could deal with 
a consideration of the Ontario Human 
Rights Code and the efforts of the 
Commission together with many facets 
of community life in the province not 
only to eliminate discrimination, but to 
help create a climate of mutual respect 
among all the peoples of the province 
by understanding and appreciating the 
contributions of various minority and 
ethnic groups to Canadian life. The 
Commission would be glad to make 
recommendations regarding films and 
literature for human rights programmes 
in camps. 

To a large extent, the practice of 
discrimination stems from misunder¬ 
standing, misconceptions and false fears 
about the nature, abilities and expected 
behaviour of certain groups or segments 
of the population. Individuals are 
judged, not on their own merits, but on 
the basis of stereotyped images or judg¬ 
ments which are projected upon a 
whole group of people. Generally, these 
images are groundless, without any 
sound foundation in fact, yet they cause 
untold harm and suffering to countless 
numbers of people. Camp counsellors 
can do much by reflecting and en¬ 
couraging positive attitudes towards all 
peoples. One effective way is to refrain 
from using words which are interpreted 
by the minority groups to whom they 
apply as being derogatory, words such 
as “nigger,” “kike,” “wop,” “dago,” 
“Jap.” Again, a policy set out on the 
board level and interpreted to coun¬ 
sellors in each camp would go a long 

turn to page 32 


Toronto , Canada , December 1964 


23 




/hhr %v^r^ 


L'AMIE 

DE MA TENTE 

Joyce Bertram 
Camp Ouareau, P,Q. 


If your French is the kind that centered rather firmly around your aunt's 
pen which happened to be either on the table of your brother or in the garden 
of your uncle, then you will want to sympathize with Modern Martyrs to the 
great cause of Bilingualism. 

In the heart of French Canada, that stronghold of the flcur-dc-lys, patates 
frites and le hamburger avee moutarde ct oignon sculemcnt, it was au nature! 
that we would desire to practise more le fran$ais Fete passee. Many of les 
monitrices (having fortunately learned their French en Suisse) were quite 
prepared to lay themselves on the altar bilingue. Les enfants, qui vivent tout 
le temps en Quebec, were even more contentes. La Dircctricc, sculemcnt, etait 
not quite so keen, remembering as she did a cartoon by Le Barron dans 1 Etoilc 
de Toronto. The cartoon en question montre les deux belles femmes taking le the, 
swathed in mink. One of these belles femmes is confiding to her cherc amie 
that “French lessons twice a week, my dear, for sixteen weeks . . . well I just 
told Harold that there was a limit to what you could do to save your country.” 

Nevertheless, nous sommes determinees to Go to That Limit, and Beyond, 
si necessaire. Canada must be kept strong! Quelle experience! Est-il probable 
que nous sovons foils? Ties probable! 

D’abord, a camp vocabulary must be made containing words which do 
not appear, d’ordinaire, in an Easy French Grammar for Grade Nine; such 
words as ant, as opposed to la tantc, snake, spider, thunderstorm, sailboat and 
“summer complaint.” Une autre listc must be compilec to contain idiomatic 
expressions used by the average young representative of Canadian girlhood, such 
as “like crazy man” and “go go go”. (How would “Allons enfants de la patrie” 
for for this last one?) 

It was decided that mardi, jeudi et samedi nous parlerions fran$ais, pendant 
que English would be spoken on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. And what 
about Sunday? I knew you would ask that. Tout le mondc demande cela. 
N’importe, press on! 

Some fairly “way out” suggestions came in for the list we were preparing, 
but finally a counsellor committee boiled it down to about thirty expressions 
without which la vie est insupportable. (It was voted unanimously to delete 
the Director’s sole contribution, c/est a dire, “But I TOLD you that last week. ) 

By maintenant, les enfants etaient au courant de what was in store for 
them, and they were huddled in corners with English-French dictionaries, au 


24 


Canadian Camping 


contraire French-English ditto depending on whether elles deineurent a Outre- 
mont or Westmount. Excitement coure haut. La liste etait fini. The stencil 
etait fini. Les accents sont added in all the right places. La Directrice and 
several of her monitrices ontariennes were practising odd phrases which later 
proved to be of almost inestimable value. (You’re very welcome to any of 
them). High on the list were “il faut que vous me parliez tres lentement,” et 
“au secours, au secours, venez quelqu’un!” “Je ne comprend pas” also got a 
good work-out, and of course the favourite was “comment dit-on en frangais?” 

Despite the fact that I have always loathed Mondays because it is laundry 
day, Wednesdays because we have a hot-dog picnic supper (incidentally “pique- 
nique” was a real bonus, I felt) and Fridays because we have fish for dinner, 
these days began to take on an aura of je ne sais quoi, pendant que I looked 
forward to Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Fridays with the same enthusiasm as I 
do to the Day of Judgment. 

It is a humbling thing for a Director to have to admit that la plupart de 
ses campeurs can do something more mieux than she can. Much mieux. Eile 
aurait du etudier le frangais while her mind was still young enough to expand. 
Mais a quoi bon de vain regrets. En avant! It worried me a little, however, 
as to just how I was going to be able to work in the few French phrases I did 
know into ordinary conversation. There aren’t really too many opportunities 
to come out with such gems as “lioni soit qui mal y pense” or “durant la nuit 
tons les chats sont gris.” 

Table conversation worried us all, aussi, parce que after one has asked for 
le beurre, le lait, seconds, and managed a few “puis-je avoirs” to show off one’s 
erudition, there were going to be a number of nasty pauses which les Fran£aise$ 
were going to be eager to fill—talking with the speed of light, and both hands. 
We therefore decided td make a rul£ -saying “pas de mains pour parler” to give 
the rest of us a chance. Later experience was to prove us correcte absolument, 
a mon avis. Without this rule we should all have been perdues. 

La liste was to be issued d’avance si bien que les monitrices des cabines et 
des tentes could go over it with les enfants, before THE FIRST MONDAY. 
G’est a rire. Most of them, a ce temps-la, had regretted their mad impulse and 
didn’t feel any more bilingue than the Director. Les kiddies, cependant, thought 
it would be a ball! 

Le comite de frangais (self-styled) stood about impatiently while la sec¬ 
retaire ran off the fameuse liste. The first few copies, hot from the press, were 
snatched up and with a little self-conscious clearing of the throats, we started 
to read. Suddenly there was a moment’s startled silence (or “silence” as they 
say in French, fortunately). Then into this silence (or silence, if you prefer) 
exploded a word which was not on the list in either French or English. 
“******“ mm X ),())X XX _” what on earth has happened to the typewriter! 
The ******** thing has slipped a line. Either that or no one bothered to line 
up the French and the English.” 

Regardez la liste which met our startled eyes: Quelle horreur! 

Mon Dieu, la cloche, deja? Who took my other sock? 

J’ai besoin d’un nouvelle brosse a dents. No thank you, I’m allergic to creamed 
Je ne me suis pas brosse les dents onions. 

depuis une semaine. ^ 


Toronto y Canada , December 1964 


25 



Qui va fairc lc “tent-hopping” avec Anybody got a clean blouse I can wear 
moi ce soir? to supper? 

Bien sure, j’ai passe Qa l’annee derniere. Who took the snake I had in that tuck 

box? 

Pas encore, pas encore, nous n’avons Who said we were having steak? 
pas fini de ncttoyer la tente! 

Veux-tu lire ma lettre de Bill? Qu’il Get off my bed, you clot, I’ve just 
est chic, ce gargon! finished making it! 

Quand est-ce lcs voyagcurs partent? Help, no buttons on my shirt! 

Helas, le travail de la semaine had come to rien. Pas d’cspoir! It was all 
to be done again. Mais la main was to the plough and there was no looking 
back. Que fairc? Que voulcz-vous and likewise au secours! 

******** 

The list was re-done, Monday the fatal day, dawned clair et brilliant. We 
were off. Lcs Bonnes Voisines were in business, mais quel prix! Che sera sera 
(sic) 

******** 

P.S. Wc kept several of the mixed up lists pour lc collector’s items. Un veritable 
objet d’art! 



Sin ilntiian Uergton of tfje 

fKtoentp ®f)trb $salm 

Editor's Note: This beautiful Indian version originated many years ago with Arizona 
Indians who translated it into a universal sign language in order to share it with 
members of neighboring tribes who spoke different dialects. A white missionary 
then retranslated it into literal English—Indian style—which is as you see it here . 

The Great Father above a shepherd Chief is. I am His and with Him I want 
not. He throws out to me a rope and the name of the rope is love and He draws 
me to where the grass is green and the water not dangerous, and I eat and lie 
down and am satisfied. Sometimes my heart is very weak and falls down but 
he lifts me up again and draws me into a good road. His name is 
WONDERFUL. 

Sometime, it may be very soon, it may be a long, long time, He will draw me 
into a valley. It is dark there, but I’ll be afraid not, for it is in between those 
mountains that the Shepherd Chief will meet me and the hunger that I have 
in my heart all through this life will be satisfied. 

Sometimes He makes the love rope into a whip, but afterwards he gives me a 
staff to lean upon. He spreads a table before me with all kinds of foods. He 
puts His hand upon my head and all the “tired” is gone. My cup He fills till 
it runs over. What I tell is true. I lie not. These roads that are “away ahead” 
will stay with me through this life and after; and afterwards I will go to live 
in the Big Tepee and sit down with the SHEPHERD CHIEF forever. 


26 


Canadian Camping 


Cross Canada Centenary Journey 


How is our planning going? Well, 
the Nova Scotia Camping Association, 
with the help of its Museum stafT, 
have mapped a canoe route across the 
province. In Ontario nine camps par¬ 
ticipated in Phase One of the Ontario 
Committee’s section plan. While Sas¬ 
katchewan has no Association, those 
keen on camping have set up their own 
committee for the project and are quite 
prepared to tackle the job. Do keep in 
touch with Miss Margaret Govan and 
her Cross-Canada Centenary Journey 
Committee—it’s an exciting undertak¬ 
ing, but like all successful canoe trips 
it takes planning! 

Here is how one camp got interested, 
and did some real thinking about our 
Canadian heritage while having a 
wonderful time — an inspired “rainy 
day” programme: 

OUR CENTENARY 
JOURNEY GAME 

We couldn’t go on any part of the 
Centenary Journey routes this year, but 
we did try to involve and interest the 
campers in it. We talked about it at 
campfires; we read some of the Jesuit 
Fathers’ Recollections aloud. One day 
we came into the dining room and 
found posters, a canoe with dummy 
figures, packs, etc. and “Centenary 
Journey” blazoned over everything. 
The counsellors must have had a 
very late night, for they had taken 
infinite pains to produce the “window 
dressing”, and it was a most effective 
production. 

Then we held a Centenary Journey 
of our own. It was one of those hor¬ 
ribly cold days in August (in Ontario) 
and programme had to be changed for 
the “nth time”. Something different 
was essential: what on earth could we 
do? The morning schedule was fairly 
satisfactory but the afternoon was a 



blank. Necessity is a great spur. . . . 

We divided camp into five groups 
of twenty, and for two hours we had a 
variety of activities representing each 
province in some measure. (We really 
should have taken all day at this, for 
the time allowance was not sufficient 
for explanations, moving from place 
to place, etc.). Group One started at 
Place One; Group Two at Place Two; 
and then followed through round the 
circuit. 

FIRST HOUR: Newfoundland— the 
fishing industry—and so Fish, a very 
simple card game. Nova Scotia —New 
Scotland—the campers were taught a 
Scottish dance. New Brunswick — 
lumbering—a table game called Block¬ 
head, which consists of balancing dif¬ 
ferent coloured shaped wooden blocks. 
An equally satisfactory game could be 
that of balancing matches on the 
mouth of a pop bottle. P.E.I .—potato 
farming — we held potato races. 
Quebec —ground hockey. 

SECOND HOUR: Ontario — touch 
football. Manitoba —farming — Jack 
Straws (another table game in which 
the pieces are little gardening imple¬ 
ments, rather like pick-up sticks). 
Saskatchewan — farming — a nature 
walk to the nearest grain field. Alberta 
- rodeo — a hobby-horse race with 
horses made from broomsticks, over a 
course which included a water jump 
(a dishpan full of water), a feeding- 
station (soda biscuits which had to be 
swallowed before continuing), etc. 
B.C. —lumbering again—campers had 
to build fire and burn string. 

This type of programme could be 
adapted in any way; it was fun. 


Toronto , Canada , December 1964 


27 


PAINT, STAIN or 
VARNISH 



David Palter, B.A.Se. 
Director of Camp Kawagama 


Dressed lumber must have some type of protection or preservation from the 
action of time, sunlight, rain, and wind. We have all seen how sunlight dis¬ 
integrates unvarnished plywood, rain soaks into lumber and contributes to rot, 
and air (Oxygen, Nitrogen and other elements) promote decomposition. Paint 
and stain are both necessary to preserve wood structures and retard the aging 
process. Both products have their place and each serves a different purpose. 
Paint is defined as a solid colouring matter dissolved in a liquid vehicle, used to 
impart colour by being spread over a surface. It is usuually made of pigment 
dissolved in oils, thinners, drying agents and other chemicals which give a variety 
of qualities for different purposes. 


STAIN is defined as a colouring matter or pigment dissolved in a liquid 
vehicle which more or less penetrates the material to which it is applied rather 
than forming a coating on the surface. It is usually a solution of wood preserva¬ 
tives carrying a pigment in the reddish brown colours or some shades of green. 
It is not a suitable material if colour were the prime purpose. Another product 
that should be mentioned in connection with Paint and Stain is Varnish. I his is 
paint without the pigment and has a number of important uses for camp buildings 
and equipment. 


PAINT 

Covers completely and im¬ 
parts a specific colour. Pro¬ 
tects completely against sun, 
rain and air. Will stand up 
for several years depending 
on quality and exposure. 
With time, cracking and 
peeling will occur necessi¬ 
tating an annual painting 
programme. 

Use on buildings for decor¬ 
ative effects as well as wood 
protection. 

Use on floors where the 
wood is not a good colour. 
Wood may have turned 
dark grey or streaked by 
wear and water, would look 
better covered with floor and 
porch enamel. 

Use on outside of canoes for 
both a protective coating as 


well as a distinguishing 
colour, a trade mark of the 
camp. 

Use on metal to prevent rust 
and corrosion. 

STAIN 

Stain soaks into wood sur¬ 
faces and acts primarily as a 
preservative. It does not 
crack or peel but will bleach 
and dry out in time. Does 
not require restaining as 
often as repainting. 

Use on shingle roofs to pre¬ 
serve and colour. 

Use on new wood buildings 
to preserve and colour. Can¬ 
not be used if wood has 
been previousuly covered 
with paint. Is of no use 
indoors. 


Use liberally on all wood 
timbers in or on the ground 
before construction. 

Use liberally on all wood 
timbers and planks before 
building docks or piers. 

VARNISH 

Covers but allows the natural 
wood grain to show through. 
If used on wood buildings 
will deteriorate rapidly in 
sunlight and requires annual 
replacement. Also used on 
floors in new' buildings. 

Use on wood interiors to 
preserve w^ood and retain 
the pleasing appearance of 
natural grain. 

Use on inside of canoes and 
wood boat hulls. 


28 


Canadian Camping 




Quality—It can be truthfully said that in paint and stain you get exactly 
what you pay for. However there are ways of purchasing that makes it possible 
to obtain the better product without paying a premium price. Regardless of 
material, if your colour scheme is standardised you can order in commercial 
quantities and deal directly with paint manufacturers. Usually 50 gallons is 
considered a commercial quantity but each manufacturer may have a different 
standard. In dealing with a manufacturer, it is possible to have a special formula 
prepared which will suit your own specific requirements regarding colour, 
preserving qualities, spreading ability and price. As a general rule, for camp 
use, the cheapest quality made by a reputable paint manufacturer is preferable. 
There are too many very cheap products on the market. A well-known manu¬ 
facturer will not jeopardize his reputation by producing some of the so called 
paints now available at very low retail prices. These come without manufacturers’ 
names or at best, some unkovvn name without a reputation to lose. 

There is another valid reason for purchasing the cheapest quality. For 
example, canoes should be painted every year in order to retain that clean well- 
cared for appearance. Even the most expensive paint does not look clean in the 
second year, especially when canoes are run into sand beaches and carried on 
portages. Since it is necessary to repair canvas, thwarts, gunwales, and keels, you 
might just as well finish the job properly and paint every year. Cut the cheapest 
enamel 50/50 with commercial thinner and wash the canoes with this thin 
mixture. This prevents a build-up of paint that eventually cracks into an alligator 
skin pattern and also adds unnecessary weight to the canoe. However, the inside 
of the canoe should be varnished with a moderately priced spar varnish about 
every second or third year if no repairs to the wooden frame have been made. 
Wherever repairs have been made, these must be varnished. 

With regard to floors, if a new building has just been contructed, as soon as 
possible apply 2 or 3 coats of floor and plywood sealer. This is a relatively 
inexpensive type of material in the varnish family. The first coat will be absorbed 
into the cellular structure of the lumber. The second coat will be partially 
absorbed leaving shiny areas that are easily seen by reflected light. The third 
coat will cover and the net result is a highly varnished floor, the same as obtained 
with some of the most expensive finishes. Roller application makes it inexpensive 
to spread and the more coats that are used, the better the floor will be. A good 
practice is not to use a new floor until 4 coats have been applied. After a summer 
of camp traffic, rubber-soled shoes with sand, the floor should be thoroughly 
scrubbed with a soap and lye solution, allowed to dry for several days, then given 
3 coats of sealer for the next year. The next season 2 coats will be sufficient and 
this should be repeated each year. This type of care has preserved a dining room 
floor for 18 years without any wear to the wood, and it is still good for many 
more years. 

In the spring, a typical camp order for paint for about 40 camp buildings 
might consist of — 

*— 50 gallons special formula wood stain preservative, to be used on all 

wood structures exposed to weather or water; also to be used on buildings that 

* 


Toronto, Canada, December 1964 


29 



have not been treated for 5 or 6 years and are beginning to show a gray or 
weatherd appearance, usually on the south or sunny side. The north side may not 
be affected at all. 

— 25 gallons Floor and Plywood sealer; for wood floors and interior plywood: 

not suitable for outdoor use. 


— 4 gallons cheap, coloured enamel for boats and canoes. 

— 2 gallons good Spar Varnish for boats and canoes. 

— 4 gallons Commercial Thinners for coloured enamel or canoes. 

— 3 gallons cheap gray porch and floor enamel for floors that are old or too 
dark for sealer. 

— 4 gallons cheap white enamel for washrooms, kitchen interiors, etc. 

— 2 gallons exterior white or your favourite colour enamel for sash, door 

jambs, and corner boards, according to your own particular colour scheme. 


— 6 or 8 gallons of assorted coloured enamels for use in Craft department, 

and for general decorative purpose about camp. 

“The old lady may not be what she used to be” but a touch of powder and lipstick 
sure does wonders for the old gal. 


Calling All 
Provincial 
Branches - - 

The Executive Committee of Cana¬ 
dian Camping Association at its meeting 
on October 9 approved a new fee 
structure. 

Effective January 1, 1965, the Pro¬ 
vincial branches will be asked to pay 
to THE CANADIAN CAMPING 
ASSOCIATION the following propor¬ 
tions of the amounts collected as 
annual dues from the members in their 
Provincial Associations: 

Camp Memberships . $5.00 

Individual Memberships . $2.50 

Student Memberships . $1.00 

Commercial Memberships ... $5.00 


CAMP STAFF 
— WANTED — 

THE ONTARIO ASSOCIATION 
FOR RETARDED CHILDREN 

Directors, Senior Programme Staff and 
Counsellors wanted for several camps, 
located in various areas of Ontario. Ex¬ 
perience in general camping is necessary. 
Orientation will be given to those ac¬ 
cepted, in working with the retarded. 
Length of time varies from 2 weeks to 
10 weeks. Counsellors must be 18 years 
of age. Counsellors-in-training will be 
accepted at 16 and 17 years. 

Please write to: 

Mrs. June Braaten, Co-Ordinator of 
Recreational Services, 48 Deepwood 
Crescent, Don Mills, Ontario. 
Telephone — Toronto — 444-2793. 


When Ordering 

PLEASE REMEMBER 

OUR 

ADVERTISERS 


30 


Canadian Camping 





from page 14 
He should: 

1. Know something about the func¬ 
tions and objectives of organized camp¬ 
ing. 

2. Know something, at least, of a 
general nature about the over-all or¬ 
ganization of a resident camp and in 
this respect, the following would seem 
to be the most important: 

(a) Administration 

(b) Staff Qualifications 

(c) How the staff members function in 
relation to each other and in the 
specific responsibilities they carry. 

(d) The programme of activities and 
its importance in the total camp 
picture. 

3. Be aware of the objectives for 
which he is being trained and have an 
understanding of the specifics of super¬ 
vision as they relate themselves to: 

(a) Camping. 

(b) Campers. 

(c) Camp routine. 

(d) Techniques. 

4. Be prepared to give his best effort 
during those training periods he will 
attend and be ready to accept the edu - 
cational implications of his becoming 
acquainted with the fundamentals and 
the techniques of leadership. 

Thus, under Training, he will receive 
instruction in: 

(a) Leadership skills regarding the 
camp programme: The physical 
activity skills (swimming, diving, 
canoeing, sailing, etc.) 

the crafts skills, 
the campcraft skills, 
the nature skills. 

(b) Leadership skills in regard to 
special techniques : 

first aid, 


life saving, 

story telling, 

song leading, 

dramatics, 

out-tripping, 

council fire leadership 

camp games leadership, 

and, under Education he will receive 
guidance and be permitted discussion 
of: 

(a) Fundamentals of Leadership : 
Understanding yourself, 
understanding the camper, 
development of a personal belief 
(i.e., a philosophy of living). 

(b) Techniques of Leadership : 

Cabin leadership, 

instructional techniques regarding 

programme, 

religious leadership. 

E.— Evaluation —This is an on-going 
process of a co-operative nature. The 
C.I.T. is not a replacement for the 
counsellor, and as such, of course, 
should be under the constant guidance 
of a supervisor. The trainee should, 
through periodic interviews with the 
supervisor, be made aware of his pro¬ 
gress. This can be done on an assess¬ 
ment form upon which can be recorded 
the observations of the supervisor at 
regular intervals during camp period. 
The C.I.T. could also be asked to keep 
an evaluative log of his own progress. 
Again, an acceptable medium would be 
given to him at the commencement of 
his period of training and education 
and in which he should be encouraged 
to assess his own progress. Finally, at 
the end of each camp year, the trainee 
should be given the opportunity of eval¬ 
uating the camp’s programme of home¬ 
grown leadership development. This 
should be done anonymously; that is, 
the C.I.T. should not be required to 
sign the evaluation, but it should be 
made available to the Camp Director. 


Toronto, Canada, December 1964 


31 


from page 23 

way towards promoting positive atti¬ 
tudes towards minority groups. 

And those camps which arc non¬ 
sectarian or inter-racial and whose 
clientele is composed of members of 
many racial, ethnic, or religious back¬ 
grounds can provide an excellent oppor¬ 
tunity in the intimacy of camp life for 
members of these groups to live to¬ 
gether, to come to know and understand 
one another, to accept one another as 
persons and to appreciate the capacities 
and achievements of others. 

There is another way in which camps 
may be of assistance in helping to 
eradicate discrimination in this prov¬ 
ince. Camp personnel may be in a 
position to known about discrimination 
which has been practised against some 
of their campers. All instances of dis¬ 
crimination should be reported imme¬ 
diately to the Commission so that the 
process of investigation and conciliation 
can be carried on. Many cases have 
come to the Commission’s attention 
through referral by religious, welfare 
and community agencies in the prov¬ 
ince and in this area camps could also 
play a very useful role. 

As mentioned above, the Ontario 
Human Rights Commission would be 
most ready to supply literature or any 
further information about the Code 
and the activities of the Commission as 


well as suggestions for films and pro¬ 
gramme material. Copies of the Code 
itself are available, as well as a number 
of pamphlets and brochures outlining 
the background of the Code and the 
function of the Commission. The 
Guide for Employers points out the 
questions which may and may not be 
asked of job applicants on application 
forms and during employment inter¬ 
views. The Commission’s bulletin, 
Human Relations, is available to any¬ 
one wishing to be on the mailing list. 
Also, the Commission has a supply of 
two-colour scrolls with a gold border 
which contains the text of the Ontario 
Human Rights Code and is suitable 
for framing. These are being displayed 
in many resort places in the province. 
The Commission would be more than 
pleased to make these available to 
camps in Ontario. The posting of the 
scroll in a prominent place on the 
camp premises would be one tangible 
way of extending knowledge of the 
Code itself among campers, counsellors 
and visitors, and of encouraging accept¬ 
ance of the principles which underlie 
it. For further information or literature 
write or telephone the Ontario Human 
Rights Commission, 8 York Street, 
Toronto 1, Ontario. In other provinces 
you will find that generally anti- 
discrimination legislation comes under 
the jurisdiction of the Department of 
Labour in each province. 


BOAT ACCESSORIES 

for every type of Water Craft 

A complete line of equipment for every marine need carried in 
our showrooms — 

SAILS - HARDWARE - ROPE - CANVAS - PAINTS - VARNISHES 
GLUES and COMPOUNDS, Etc. 

TOM TAYLOR LIMITED 

The Best in Quality and Service 

81 Front Street East EMpire 3-8761-2 Toronto, Ontario 


32 


Canadian Camping 





from page 16 

safety, character development, social 
adjustment. 

Two main differences in our modern 
approach to camping are in the realms 
of health and safety and of programme. 
It is true that the early camps were 
concerned about health and safety, but 
far more was left to the good judgment 
or otherwise of the director than is the 
case today. In those days no license 
was required, there was no government 
inspection, and what is still more 
important, no codified set of health and 
safety regulations. As for minimum 
standards of camping, they didn’t exist. 
That few serious accidents occurred 
speaks volumes for the sense of respon¬ 
sibility that the early directors displayed. 

There has been a significant develop¬ 
ment in the realm of programme. 
Formerly camp activities were more of 
an end in themselves: if the youngsters 
enjoyed them that was sufficient reward 
in itself. It was only as time went on 
that the question of what all these 
activities were doing to the campers 
began to be considered more seriously. 
In the early days camps were more 
programme-centered, today they are 
far more child-centered. There was a 
time when the good director was often 
thought of as the man who could 
immerse boys in a welter of activities, 
and in doing so he would pull a lot of 
good tricks out of his bag. Today we 
think of the good director as the man 
who can produce an environment that 
is conducive to the growth, happiness, 
safety and well-being of the individual. 
The old and outmoded concept pro¬ 
duced some directors who might have 
been termed “stunt artists”. 

Camps had been operating in 
Ontario for about thirty years before 
the Ontario Camping Association, the 
first provincial association, was formed. 
For some years previous to that time 
Canada was a section of the American 
Camping Association. We in Canada 
owe much to this association for the 


Oscar Pearson Enterprises 

PLAYGROUND 

AND 

SWIMMING POOL 

ACCESSORIES 

For Summer Resorts, Camps 
and Summer Cottages . 

PYE TRANSHAILERS 
Write for 1965 Catalogue 
206 Sherboume St. — 366-3440 

HU. 5-5206 , 


K & N TRAVEL SERVICE 

AIRLINE, STEAMSHIP AND 
TRAIN TICKETS 
HOTEL RESERVATIONS 
BAGGAGE "AND FLIGHT INSURANCE 

159 Bay St., Room 801 
Toronto 1, Ontario - EM. 6-3981 
After 5 p.m. EM. 6-4074 

Also Offices in Montreal & Winnipeg 


FOR SALE 

CAMP, in the Lake of Bays 
District, Muskoka, Ontario. 130 
acres, 3000 feet good shore¬ 
line, 30 buildings including 
large dining-room; recreation 
hall; both with Hydro elec-' 
tricity, also sleeping cabins. 
Camp is well equipped and can 
accommodate 100 campers or 
more plus staff. Lots of room 
for expansion. Canoes, Sail¬ 
boats, etc. 

Write or telephone— 

MRS. WM. ANDERSON 
"Castlereagh" 

R.R. #1 

Baysyille, Ontario 
DORSET - 766-2372 


Toronto , Canada , December 1964 


33 




splendid contribution they made to 
camps in Canada during the period 
when we had no organization of our 
own. Moreover it was the inspira¬ 
tion and motivation which Ontario 
camp directors received from attending 
their conventions that resulted in the 
formation of the Ontario Camping 
Association. 

It was about 1930 to 1932 when 
Taylor Statten invited me to join a 
small group of private camp directors 
who met occasionally in each other’s 
homes. This was the group which was 
to bring the Ontario Camping Asso¬ 
ciation into being. Before doing so the 
question arose as to whether the new 
Association should be just for private 
camps or whether it should be all 
inclusive. As you know, we agreed 
upon the latter. The directors who 
formed the small group which initiated 
me into the camp movement included 
Mr. A. L. Cochrane, Mr. and Mrs. 
Taylor Statten, Mr. Ernest Chapman. 
Miss Mary Edgar, Miss Mary Hamilton 
and Miss Ferna Hailiday. There may 
have been a few others that have 
escaped my memory. 

I think I would be remiss if I did not 
pay tribute to this group, not only 
because they were instrumental in 
founding the Association, but more 
particularly because of their keen sense 
of responsibility and unusual qualities 
of heart and mind. These were the 
persons who, along with Mr. and Mrs. 
Danson (who were soon to found Camp 
Winnebagoe), sparked and kept alive 
the Camping Association during its 
formative period and until the various 
agencies could become the robust factor 
they now are. 

Canada has been fortunate. She has 
reason to be proud of the men and 
women who pioneered camping in this 
country. It could be that they builded 
better than they knew. 


from page 11 

If it were only a matter of teaching 
people hobbies, the solution would be 
easy. But we shall need a new kind of 
man, or at least men with different 
values. It will have to be an individual 
who values something more than power, 
money, and material possessions. He 
will have to see leisure as an oppor¬ 
tunity. He will need to be challenged 
rather than bored or defeated by the 
open hour. Will it not have to be the 
kind of person who will choose self¬ 
development over self-centeredness? 

Whatever the attractions of leisure, 
it is not a substitute for work. George 
Bernard Shaw was right when he said, 
“A perpetual holiday is a good working 
definition of hell.” Work for a large 
number of people, particularly the 
talented, and those blessed with expres¬ 
sive and creative minds, has its own 
built-in incentives. Work carries with 
it the feelings of purposefulness and 
usefulness which are indispensable to 
self-respect. Yet industry can also be 
just another word for conscience, par¬ 
ticularly in a culture enraptured of 
materialism. Under such circumstances, 
it is too easy to be drawn away from 
life’s humanistic attractions. 

Creative growth depends upon the 
maintenance of the work-leisure cycle. 
It is never completed through leisure 
alone, but it is impossible without it. 
But, as Dr. Alexander Reid Martin 
said, “We may be coming to a time 
when the merit of leisure and the 
respite of work are not things earned 
by hard work. Perhaps like God’s grace 
extended to us a mercy undeserved, 
that abundant to our needs, the coming 
beneficent society will bestow on man. 
because he is man, abundance in 
material things and free time.” 

Have all of us, the young and the 
old, already fallen into the trap of 
thinking that being amused, being 
entertained, and being comfortable arc 

* 


34 


Canadian Camping 




out frmehos ... 

The Advertisers 


American Camping Association . 8 

Anderson. Mrs. Win . 33 

Canada Catering Co. Ltd. . 35 

Continental Casualty Co. — 

Outside Back Cover 

T. Eaton Co. Ltd . 3 

Foodcraft Laboratories Ltd . 4 

Galloway Corporation . 8 

Gibbons Foods Ltd.Inside Front Cover 

K &. X Travel Service . 33 

Parents’ Magazine . 7 

Oscar Pearson Enterprises . 33 

1 lie Quaker Oats Co. of Canada Ltd... 5 

Redbook Magazine . 6 

Stafford Foods Ltd . 4 

Starkman Chemists Ltd . 35 

Tandy Leather Co . 7 

I om Taylor Co. Ltd . 32 

Vermont Accident Insurance Co . 6 


CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING RATES: 

Twenty cents a word, minimum five dollars. 

All classified payable in advance. Address all 
correspondence to “Canadian Camping”, 170 
Bloor Street West, Toronto, Ontario. 

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATOR 
SUMMER camp. 2yi months full 
time, 9 months part time. Experience 
in purchasing, commissary and main¬ 
tenance desired. Call Camp Raniah. 
RU. 9-2193 or send resume to Camp 
Raniah, 491 Lawrence West, Toronto 
12, Ontario. 

preferable to physical and intellectual 
development? To creative and cultural 
development? To self-fulfillment? 

When we think of leisure, and the 
recreative use of it, we ought to reflect 
upon the real meaning of the latter, 
living creatively over and over again, 
rather than the shallower interpreta¬ 
tions of it — amusement, frivolity, 
restlessness, and aimlessness. 

We should think of leisure as an 
opportunity for learning, as a possible 
cultivator of tastes and interests and 
skills and rallies, as a potenial influence 
for good upon our behavior, as a means 
of helping to give us balance in a world 
which is out of balance, as a softener 
of the blows which reveal our imper¬ 
fection, as an opportunity for creative, 
exciting, adventuresome, and full living. 


Wholesale 
Medical 
Supplies ... 

Medical Equipment 
First Aid Requirements 
Drugs and Medicines 

• 

Low Prices Fast Service 

• 

STARKMAN CHEMISTS 

459 Bloor St. W. - Toronto 
WA. 2 - Twenty-One - Twenty-One 


— FOR SALE — 

We have a quantity of used 
camping equipment: 

— Beds 

— Double Bunks 
— Mattresses 
— Sheets 
— Pillows 
— Blankets 
— Tables 
— Benches 

All of this equipment is in 
good condition and can be in¬ 
spected at our warehouse. 

CANADA CATERING CO. 
-LTD. - 

5 Southvale Drive 
TORONTO 17, ONT. 
421-7474 


' Toronto, Canada, December 1964 


35 

























$250,000.00 

PAID BY 

CAMP-GUARD* 

| this CAMP it PROTECT S^ 

ACCIDENT and SICKNESS 

INSURANCE 


DISPLAY THIS SYMBOL 

STICKERS AVAILABLE FOR YOUR STATIONERY 





Since 1954 campers have been paid approximately 
one quarter of a million dollars from this plan. 
Benefits paid are increasing each year—proof of 
the need for your CAMP-GUARD plan. 

*A choice of plans for all organizational, church and 
private camps providing broad medical expense 
protection for each accident and each sickness at low 
cost group rates for both campers and staff members. 

Put CAMP-GUARD on your programme. Display 
this symbol and let parents know your camp is 
covered. This symbol of outstanding coverage 
assures them you take added interest in your 
camper's welfare, by providing a CAMP-GUARD 
accident and sickness plan. 

Your local insurance agent will help you choose the 
right plan for your camp; or write our nearest office 
for full particulars. 


CONTINENTAL CASUALTY COMPANY 

INDUSTRY MARKETING & SPECIALTY DIVISION 


Suite 401 

1281 Georgia St. West 
VANCOUVER 5, B.C. 
MUtual 4-6381 


1 60 Bloor St. East 
TORONTO 
WAInut 4-4692 


2100 Drummond Street 
MONTREAL 
Victor 9-5306 


Suite 660, 1 Thornton Court — EDMONTON — GA. 4-7322 
202-209 Notre Dame — WINNIPEG 2 — WH. 3-8723 
Suite 403, 600 6th Avenue S.W. — CALGARY — AM. 3-1937 





