

OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE 


CANADIAN 



CAMPING ASSOCIATION 


MPING 



•June 19 53 

TORONTO, CANADA 















5 to 1 

JELLY POWDERS 


• 

5 to 1 

PUDDING POWDERS 

• 

LEMON PIE FILLING 


7 to 1 

FRUIT RICKEY 

Lime, Lemon, Orange, Grape 


m 

CAKE MIXES 

White, Chocolate, Ginger, Spice 

Pancake, Brownie 


10 pound canister makes 360 servings 
2 pound sealed tube makes 72 servings 

— A CENT A SERVING — 


Hundreds of Camp Directors know these top quality products 
have more flavor and give more servings than any other. 


— Prepared in ,20 minutes — 


This Telephone . . . 

EMPIRE 6-5085 


for YOU night and day to place your order 


is open 


GIBBONS 


f U 'S SEI DESSERTS 

Quality 


106 ADELAIDE ST. WEST, TORONTO, CANADA 












For the kind of interior surroundings that keep your 
guests returning year after year, consult EATON’S 

Contract Sales. We can design a new interior or 
renovate the old . . . and furnish every item of equipment 
you might require ior your hotel, lodge or camp. 


E ATO N'S 


Toronto, Canada, June, 1953 


3 






proven 

WcKEW^O 

products 


• McKemco Special Laundry Compounds 

• McKemco H.X.M. Cleaner Special 

Compound No. 15 

• McKemco Laundry Soap powder 

• McKemco Laundry Foam 

• McKemco Sodium Hypochlorite Bleach 

• McKemco Paradichlorbenzine Crystals 

for Mothproofing 


• McKemco Machine Dishwashing 


Compounds 

• McKemco Hand Dishwashing Compounds 

• McKemco Glass Washing Compounds 

• McKemco Sanitizing Agents 

• McKemco Pots and Pans Cleaners 

• McKemco Insecticides 

• McKemco Washroom Supplies 

• Whitato Anti-Oxidant to keep Peeled 

Potatoes White 

• Anco Grease Trap Cleaner 


also 


ANCO SEPTIC TANK CLEANER 

and ACTIVATER. For trouble-free operation of 
Septic Tanks and Drain Fields. Anco restores 
waste-clogged tanks to normal efficiency . . . 
eliminates odors and protects health. It keeps 
any properly-built Septic Tank in top working 
condition. 


McKAGUE 

CHEMICAL 

COMPANY 

1119A YONGE STREET 

LIMITED 

PRINCESS 1481 

TORONTO 

MANUFACTURERS AlfD DISTRIBUTORS OF SPECIALIZED CLEANERS AND ALKALIES 


Write us today for 
complete information on 
any of these quality 
McKemco Products. 


4 


Canadian Camping 














CANADIAN CAMPING 


Vol. V 


JUNE, 1953 


No. 3 


CONTENTS 

Toward a Philosophy of Camping__—...-. John Hoyle 7 

Counsel for Counselors .—...-... Mary S. Edgar 10 

Cooking in the Out of Doors..... Flora M Morrison 12 

A Manual of Operations... Roy D. Locke 15 

Woodfire and Candlelight ............. M.L.N. 17 

An Adventure in Retrospect .. Winnipeg Girl Guides 20 

Propane Gas and its uses for the Cairm . 22 

President’s News Letter ....„......... W. E. Yard 24 

Camp Leadership Training Courses .......... 27 

Book Reviews ....„.-........ 33 

For Your Information __-.-_______ 36 

In Lighter Vein ................. 39 

Cover Photo from Winnipeg Girl Guides 


CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 
Office: 236 Bloor St. W., Toronto 


Honorary President 

A. L. Cochrane, Toronto 

Past Presidents 

Taylor Statten, Toronto 
Dais L. Gass, Montreal 
Anne I. Vail, Montreal 

President 

W. E. (Ted) Yard 
Central Y.M.C.A. 

40 College St., Toronto 

Vice Presidents 

Irwin Haladner, Toronto 
F. M. Van Wagner, Montreal 
Mrs. I. H. McDonald, Manitoba 


Executive-Secretary 
Joyce Bertram 
236 Bloor St. W., Toronto 

Treasurer 

Clifford Labbett 

252 Snowdon Ave., Toronto 

Editor 

Mary S. Edgar 

64 St. Clair Avi.. W., Toronto 

Assistant Editor 
Mary L. Northway 
164 Mill Street 
Richmond Hill, Ontario 

Publishing Agent 
Fred Haiblen 

170 Bloor St. W., Toronto 


“CANADIAN CAMPING IS PUBLISHED FOUR TIMES A YEAR BY THE CANADIAN CAMPING MAGAZINE 
CO. FOR THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION AT 170 BLOOR ST. WEST, TORONTO ONTARIO ^ m 
SCRIPTION PRICES: MEMBERSHIP IN THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION INCLUDES CANAn.A.i 

CAMPING: TO NON-MEMBERS, 35 CENTS PER COPY, $1.25 PER YEAR, $3.50 FOR THREE VFapq 
AUTHORIZED AS SECOND CLASS MAIL, POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT. OTTAWA ONT 


E or onto j Canada , June , 1953 























Photograph from Canadian Council of Churches 


The Queen Request 

In her Christmas broadcast the Queen said : 

“At my Coronation 1 shall dedicate myself anew to your service. 1 shall do 
so in the presence* of a great congregation, drawn from every part of the Common¬ 
wealth and Empire, while millions outside Westminster Abbey will hear the 
promises and the prayers being offered up within its walls, and see much of the 
ancient ceremony. You will be keeping it as a holiday; but I want to ask you 
all, whatever your religion may be, to pray for me on that day—to pray that God 
may give me wisdom and strength to carry out the solemn promises 1 shall be 
making, and that I may faithfully serve Him, and you, all the days of my life” 


6 


Canadian Camping 





Towards a Philosophy 

in Camping 

John Hoyle 

Director: Camp GayVenture 
President: Ontario Camping Association 


This writer is not able to look back 
to the turn of the century, when the 
stalwarts and pioneers of Canadian 
camping, under inconceivable difficul¬ 
ties, broke trail into the wilds and 
initiated a movement which brought 
health, happiness, the practice of un¬ 
selfish service and creative idealism unto 
the lives of untold thousands. Some of 
these pioneers now have the grand¬ 
children of their earlier campers en¬ 
rolled in their camps. To these pioneer 
camp directors Canadian camping 
owes a debt it can never hope to 
repay. These men and women expected 
no reward but, indeed, they have their 
reward in the knowledge of work well 
done; work which has contributed 
greatly to the high idealism of life and 
service which is both the pride and 
objective of every right-thinking Can¬ 
adian citizen. 

It would be interesting if these early 
pioneers would compare their objec¬ 
tives of the first few years with their 
objectives for 1953. It is no disrespect 
to them to suggest that if they did so 
(and no doubt they have) the change 
in emphasis would be more than 
marked. 

The writer cannot compete with 
these early pioneers of camping but the 
memories of his first experience in 
camping still stand out strongly. In 


1910, as Captain of a Church Lad’s 
Brigade, he took fifteen or twenty boys 
for his, and their, first camping ex¬ 
perience. 

What was the purpose in the mind 
of their leader? Well, it was mainly to 
give the boys a happy experience of 
living, to feed them well, and perhaps, 
to catch with them a glimpse of the 
Eternal beyond the immediate present. 
Undoubtedly, however, the chief aim 
was fun and food, which in those days, 
and in that locality, were not too easily 
experienced. 

These objectives seem rather incom¬ 
plete as we look on to the camping 
season just ahead and think in terms 
of the Ultimate Objectives introduced 
in our previous article in this series. 
What, then, are some of the greater, the 
more ultimate, all-embracing objectives 
that may give purpose to our 1953 pro¬ 
gramme? Objectives that may touch 
those deep chords of devoted service 
which will encourage our counsellors 
to go the “second mile” as they “take 
over” their group of half a dozen ac¬ 
tive youngsters who will be their re¬ 
sponsibility for a week, a month, the 
season. 

The longer our camp has been in 
operation the more urgent it is that we 
take time to consider these ultimate 


Toronto, Canada, June, 1953 


7 


objectives. Traditions may very easily 
become tragedies of inadequacy. To a 
point, traditional objectives have their 
place but only if they are constantly 
being re-thought and re-evaluated in 
terms of a changing social and eco¬ 
nomic order and in terms of youngsters 
whose own social and economic con¬ 
ditions are on the move. Dare we ask 
each camp director to honestly query 
his own traditional objectives and ask 
himself whether they are worth main¬ 
taining, whether they are really ade¬ 
quate for 1953 and whether they are 
indeed accomplishing the purpose for 
which the camp was instituted ten, 
twenty or fifty years ago? 

Camp activities, per se, must always 
be recognized as means, not ends, as 
contributing towards something bigger 
and better and more permanent. Fine 
and useful as are normal camp activi¬ 
ties, how permanent are they in their 
results? How many camp activities will 
have permanent value ten or thirty 
years after the camper sadly bids fare¬ 
well at the close of his last season? 
Certainly most camp activities make a 
great contribution to health, fun, and, 
we hope, safety, but to what extent do 
they in and by themselves contribute 
to well-balanced, mature adult living? 
The writer is not endeavouring to dis¬ 
parage camp activities but he is try¬ 
ing to point out that there are, after 
all, contributing factors to mature liv¬ 
ing, and mature living will not be 
achieved just through a programme of 
haphazard activities. 

William H. Kilpatrick, Head of the 
Department of Education of Teacher’s 
College, Columbia University, used to 
tell us that every activity should be 
evaluated in terms of its ability to “lead 
on” to something still more interesting, 
more valuable, more permanent; that 
every thing we do is leading on but the 
question is to what is it leading us? 


Here, then, is the need for some 
careful thinking on ultimate objectives. 
Is our activity programme so geared, 
are our counsellors those kinds of 
people, and is our training programme 
so planned that the entire camp staff 
is moving together to encourage the 
campers towards ways of thinking, of 
feeling, and of activity that will have 
permanent value in the years to come 
as well as in the immediate present? 

Let us again make it clear that ulti¬ 
mate objectives do not minimize im¬ 
mediate objectives, they are comple¬ 
mentary rather than competitive. But 
as directors and counsellors we are 
working with growing and developing 
personalities and we must be thinking 
in terms of to-day while we are also 
thinking in terms of tomorrow, and 
tomorrow may be twenty years ahead. 
While we are endeavouring to give our 
campers the best we have for them 
now, we must always be thinking in 
terms of the future. A well-rounded 
programme of activities may lead on to 
a mature well-adjusted adult; it will, 
if each element of our camp life is 
thought through and considered in light 
of the future as well as the present. The 
gist of the situation depends upon what 
sort of an adult you want your camp 
to assist in developing. This requires 
the defining, and the clarification of 
values as regards our entire camp pro¬ 
gramme. Let us then look at the first 
of these ultimate values. 

One of the great contrasts the writer 
finds between his camp programme of 
forty years ago and his programme of 
to-day is the basic need of helping 
counsellors (and staff) to acquire, ex¬ 
perience, and make permanent the 
ability to relax. Our daily newspapers 
keep us well informed of the number 
of break-downs and deaths due to fail¬ 
ure to live a relaxed life. The camper 
to-day comes to us from a round of 


8 


Canadian Camping 


winter activities well designed to gear 
him up for a life of intense pressure 
with all its potential of neuroticism, 
complexes and tensions. The pressure 
of school and homework, especially in 
the senior grades, is heavy. To this 
load parents, wisely or unwisely, add 
music lessons, ballet lessons, skating 
lessons, etc., which together with neces¬ 
sary social responsibilities, tend to make 
life for the adolescent an experience 
that is too full, too rigid, too regi¬ 
mented. Extra curriculum activities in¬ 
cluding many things good in themselves 
may become actually harmful when 
carried to excess. 

Camp may offer an antidote. In the 
early days of camping starting with 
compulsory “physical jerks” and a be¬ 
fore-breakfast swim (also compulsory) 
until “lights out”, camp was a ceaseless 
hive of activity, so that in not a few 
cases children returned home exhausted 
and quite unprepared physically and 
emotionally for their home and school 
duties. No wonder some parents won¬ 
dered whether camp was really a con¬ 
structive and healthy place for their 
children. 

To-day, the modern camp looks upon 
camper relaxation as a basic must not 
alone for the immediate present but as 
a means of guiding children towards a 
full life, richly enjoyed, because ade¬ 
quate time is allowed and the terrify¬ 
ing tension of hurry is missing. How, 
then, can this be accomplished? First 
of all there is the after dinner rest 
period of not less than one hour and a 
half. If this is to be really effective it 
mqst be rest period free from noise, 
commotion and special meetings. Rest 
period is not the time for clan or sec¬ 
tion meetings, or special swimming 
classes, or loud speaker announcements. 
It is a period for uninterupted relaxa¬ 
tion, for sleeping or reading, or even 
quiet conversation. (Have you ever 


tried playing quiet music over your 
amplifier as a means of inducing quiet 
and sleep?). 

Then there is the need of adequate 
sleep at night. It is so easy to keep 
up young children for special pro¬ 
grammes which, while excellent in 
themselves, are having just the opposite 
effect on the campers themselves. The 
younger campers of six or seven need 
to retire before seven o’clock, and 
“lights out” for the oldest campers 
should not come later than nine-thirty 
o’clock. “Lights out” should be exactly 
that, plus quiet, so that every camper 
may get the rest and relaxation his de¬ 
veloping body so urgently requires. 

As another aid to relaxation some 
camps have abolished all bells, sirens, 
bugles and similar distracting influences 
except for fire alarms and whistles on 
the waterfront. The results have been 
surprising and regularity and punctu¬ 
ality do not seem to have suffered. 
Why? Because the campers co-operate. 

The same applies to the movement 
of campers from one activity to an¬ 
other. Surely schedules can be planned 
so that campers may pass from area to 
area without the feeling of pressure, 
without having to run “to be on time”. 
Certainly punctuality is a most desir¬ 
able trait but let it be punctuality based 
on a growing sense of time and not 
under the constant and impelling strain 
of pressure, and maybe in some cases, 
fear. 

Such a programme may readily be 
worked out. For example, setting the 
clock back to Standard Time for the 
first six weeks of the season definitely 
helps youngsters in getting to bed more 
readily. Then, as in this day and age 
every counsellor and Activity Head 
wears a wrist watch there is no reason 
(Continued on page 37) 


Toronto , Canada , June , 1953 


9 


Counsel for Counselors 


Mary S. Edgar 

Director: Glen Bernard Camp 


Two little campers near my cabin 
were breathlessly watching a green ancl 
mauve butterfly emerge from a drab 
grey chrysalis. As its shining fragile 
wings slowly unfolded, there was 
hushed silence. A whistle sounded 
from the wharf for swimming—the 
most popular activity of the day, but 
neither of them paid the slightest atten¬ 
tion. A miracle was happening before 
their wondering eyes! 

There are other miracles that happen 
at camp and even the leader with see¬ 
ing eyes and an understanding heart 
may not guess the inner and lasting 
significance of such things as a camper’s 
silence in the presence of beauty, a 
camper’s pride of achievement in creat¬ 
ing something, or a camper’s satisfac¬ 
tion in a widening circle of friendship. 
There are “magic spectacles” which all 
counsellors should try to wear in look¬ 
ing at each separate camper as an in¬ 
dividual. One of the lenses is “insight” 
and the other is “imagination”. With 
such a vision the camp leader can 
glimpse miracles of character develop¬ 
ment and, what is infinitely more won¬ 
derful, she may evert play a part in the 
Divine process. 

Let us consider some of the ways in 
which we, as leaders, can play a part in 
character building. First we can es¬ 
tablish a bond of friendship. If we are 
truly interested in our campers, they 


will be quick to sense the sincerity of 
our interest. If we believe in them and 
expect the best from them, our faith 
is likely to inspire the response we de¬ 
sire. A freshman in college wrote in 
her diary some of her ideas about 
leadership: “A leader is a person who 
can make you expand into doing things 
you never dreamed of—all because she 
believes so hard in you and your ability 
and what you have to share. Some 
people freeze you up, while others 
make you see that your ideas and pep 
are just plain needed. And she makes 
you self-winding too—not all depen¬ 
dent on her, but full of new ideas and 
plans of your own, until you feel like 
a natural-born creator. The Dutch 
don’t just raise tulips; they love them 
up. That’s like a leader! She loves you 
up, and I believe that anyone who 
cares enough can learn to do it.” 

If we care enough, we shall give 
much thought to planning the sort of 
camp program which will mean most 
to our campers. We shall think about 
our own particular group of campers 
as individuals—very special and im¬ 
portant. We shall take stock of our 
own resources, our talents, our training 
and abilities, our camp-site possibilities, 
and try to plan to get the most value 
out of what we have. We shall realize 
how precious the brief camping period 
must be for children who look forward 
all year to their camp days. 


10 


Canadian Camping 


Apart from planning the usual ramp 
activities which most campers enjoy 
and which are an important part of 
the program — such as swimming, 
canoeing, trips, archery, dramatics, 
crafts, etc., we should give much 
thought to how the campers can have 
a part in planning their own program. 
It will be a much more successful 
holiday if there is co-operation in plan¬ 
ning the events of the day. Campers 
will themselves grow into leaders as 
we share with them our responsibilities 
and let them feel we need their ideas 
and their enthusiasm. At camp re¬ 
unions when old campers happily share 
reminiscences, their most unforgettable 
memories are of times when they as¬ 
sumed certain responsibilities, or played 
some new role, or met some unexpected 
emergency. 

There is immeasurable value in hav¬ 
ing some “free time” at camp. Do not 
try to schedule all the precious hours. 
Solitude and a seme of freedom in the 
out-of-doors can be a surprising new ad¬ 
venture for a city child. Help her to 
discover the exhilarating tonic which 
can be found by going alone into the 
woods, or by just resting in a quiet 


place beneath a friendly tree under the 
good blue sky. There is a quotation 
from Mrs. Miniver which expresses 
this idea. “So far as Mrs. Miniver 
knew, she had no appointments that 
day, either pleasant or unpleasant and 
that in itself was good. To be entirely 
at leisure for one day is to be for 
one day an immortal.” Some of our 
campers will use this free time to dis¬ 
cover the beauty of the world about 
them, to think new thoughts under the 
stars, and to wonder about Life—all of 
which will link them with the “Im¬ 
mortals”. 

Leadership is responsibility, and the 
essence of true leadership is humility. 
We must grasp the fact that we cannot 
lead others unless we, ourselves, are 
constantly developing inner resources 
of poise and wisdom. We need confi¬ 
dence and harmony within ourselves if 
we hope to inspire it in others. As a 
final word, may I quote a very suitable 
prayer for every day of camp. 

“God give me sympathy and sense 

And help me keep my courage high. 
God give me calm and confidence 

And, please, a twinkle in my eye.” 



Toronto, Canada, June, 1953 


11 
























Cookiiuj in the 

Out of Doors 

Flora M. Morrison 


Before the opening of each camp 
season, counsellors spend many hours 
together, discussing the camp program. 
If camping is to be the thrill which 
most young campers expect, the pro¬ 
gram must centre around outdoor ac¬ 
tivities. For a new camper, his first 
meal cooked down by the lake may be 
the highlight of his summer. It will 
take the clever guidance of the coun¬ 
sellor to make this event a thrilling one. 
He will have to arrange a simple menu 
because the obstacles in outdoor cook¬ 
ing are many. He will have to be 
nearby to give assistance frequently 
when it is needed. He will require end¬ 
less patience, because it is always easier 
to do it oneself. If the child has taken 
a share in the preparation of the meal, 
and if the results are good to eat, it 
is most likely that he will want to re¬ 
peat the experience and to progress to 
more complicated menus. 

I have often wondered why, at our 
summer cabin in Haliburton, we prefer 
cooking most of our meals on the out¬ 
door fireplace when we have a per¬ 
fectly good stove and convenient kit¬ 
chen inside the cabin. It may be the 
view of the lake, the nearness of the 
birds and animals, the smell of the 
woodsmoke or the achievement of pro¬ 
ducing a good meal with the adversi¬ 
ties of wind and stubborn fire. What¬ 
ever the reason, I think it must arise 
from our first happy cooking experi¬ 


ences in camp or out on a canoe trip. 
Cooking the meal is a part of living in 
the out of doors—so time spent in pre¬ 
paring a meal must not be rushed. 
Some of the enjoyment vanishes if 
campers become too hungry before the 
meal is ready. Their impatience often 
results in partially cooked or wrongly 
cooked food, which is both unpalatable 
and indigestible. Fresh air in itself is 
no antidote for spoiled food. The 
statement that, “Everything tastes good 
in the out of doors”, is used too often 
as an alibi for the counsellor’s lack of 
skill in planning and supervising the 
preparation and service of the meal. 

Outdoor cooking, as any other acti¬ 
vity should be graded to the ability and 
interest of the campers. The youngest 
camper may find toasting a piece of 
bread is quite difficult enough. Older 
campers and counsellors may delight 
in spending a day making a dinner 
party. The boys or girls on a canoe 
trip may discover much pleasure in 
planning and packing supplies, and 
preparing menus adequate in nutrition, 
efficient for toting. 

We have found a few general prin¬ 
ciples which are important in any out¬ 
door cooking. After discussing these, 
we will describe ways in which these 
can be adapted to cooking activities 
for campers of different levels of 
ability. 


12 


Canadian Camping 


1. Plan time for a meal outdoors 

Cooking a meal should be considered 

part of the day’s program rather than 
something to which one rushes after a 
strenuous afternoon of activity. In 
fact, campers find it interesting to spend 
the morning planning and packing the 
meal to be cooked out. Then they can 
paddle, row or walk leisurely to their 
campsite and perhaps enjoy their 
morning swim before preparing the 
meal. 

2. Cooking Sites 

Every camp has favourite spots 
where campers like to go. It is well 
to have a number of these places suit¬ 
able for outdoor meals. Although 
elaborate fireplaces are unnecessary 
and often inconvenient, it is well to 
choose places where some materials 
are at hand with which the campers 
can build fireplaces suitable for the 
kind of meal chosen—rocks which won’t 
split when heated, an old grate or rack, 
a safe place to build fires, and water or 
sand to put it out. There should be 
plenty of space for preparing and serv¬ 
ing the meal and for sitting about. 
If there are overnight trips, there 
must be plenty of flat space for sleep¬ 
ing. With most meals, it is a good idea 
to have several small fires so that dif¬ 
ferent members of the group can deal 
with their special delicacies without 
tripping over each other. 

3. Size of Group 

At home when we entertain, we find 
that cooking for a large number of 
people is a very difficult project and 
requires superior skill. When we take 
children l/> cook meals out, we must 
be sure to keep the numbers small if 
it is to be an enjoyable experience. In 
these days when our camps have be¬ 
come rather highly organized, it is 
essential that we find opportunity for 
small groups for campers to plan and 
carry out projects in a relaxed and 


happy fashion. Six is a very pleasant 
number for a cook-out, and more than 
nine is usually cumbersome. 

4. Cooking Equipment 

Convenient equipment for packing 

and cooking food is essential. Food 
which is spilled or eggs which are 
broken may ruin the meal completely. 
If utensils are hard to find, it is not 
easy to be efficient. We suggest a cut¬ 
lery roll for carrying knives, forks, 
spoons, pancake turner and can 
opener. It consists of a piece of cloth 
folded and stitched into sections for 
each type of cutlery. It is spread open 
for use or rolled up for carrying. We 
suggest a tin box for butter and waxed 
cotton bags for dry goods. All equip¬ 
ment should be carried in pack sacks 
or pack baskets. Each camper should 
have a bandana, to be used as a pot 
holder when cooking. A Dutch oven 
kept at the campsites, is invaluable. 

5. Cook Books 

It is more fun and easier too, if one 
cooks with a recipe book rather than 
being told each step. The cook book 
may be one of the small pocket editions, 
a regular camp cook book, or a small 
notebook into which the campers 
write the recipes. One of the latest 
camp books is, “One Pot Cookery”, by 
E. J. Bourgaize (see review in thii 
issue). Most of the regular household 
cook books give information and 
recipes, readily adapted to outdoor 
cooking. We like Kate Aitken’s Cook¬ 
book (39c). The “Smothered Chic¬ 
ken” makes a fine party meal for out¬ 
doors. There are a number of attrac¬ 
tive cook books for children. 

Some Samples of Outdoor Cooking 
Projects: 

1. A Snack for the Youngest Campers 

Some-Mores — Ingredients: 2 gra¬ 
ham crackers, 2 squares plain choco¬ 
late, 1 marshmallow, for each Some- 
More. 


7 or onto, Canada , June, 1953 


13 


Place chocolate on one cracker. 
Toast marshmallow slowly. Place on 
chocolate and put second cracker on 
top. You will want more! 

2. Ten Year Olds Go Out To Supper 
This is a simple and tasty menu. 

Spaghetti and Cheese —Boil spaghetti 
in salted water. Dram, Add plenty of 
grated cheese. Small pieces of left¬ 
over cooked meat adds to the flavor. 
Cabbage and Raisin Salad 
Fruit and Cookies 
Cocoa 

3. Off On An Overnight Trip 

Dinner—B. R. T.; Dehydrated 

Apples with Lemon; Cookies; Cocoa 
or Coffee. 

Before bed—Bread twists with jam. 
Breakfast—Prunes (cooked the night 
before) ; Oatmeal; Bacon; Toast and 
Jam; Cocoa or Coffee. 

Recipe for B. R. T. (for six camp 
appetites)—2 cups rice, 8 slices bacon, 
1 onion, 1 can tomatoes, 2 tsp. sugar, 
salt and pepper. 

Wash rice and cook in salted water. 
Rinse in water to separate grains. Fry 
bacon and onion; add tomatoes. Com¬ 
bine with rice and heat. 

4. A “Camping Unit” 

I have often wondered if the older 
campers, especially in a girls’ camp, 
might not like a week or so “Camp- 
keeping”. Could a Campkeeping 
Cabin—or tents or shelters be built not 
too far away from the main camp? It 
could be equipped with the essentials 
of housekeeping, good outdoor fire¬ 
place with oven (or Dutch oven), an 
indoor fireplace for rainy days, an old 
ice refrigerator or a deep, cold box 
under the floor, pots, pans, plates, 
staples. The group could live here 
for a week doing their campkeeping— 
planning and obtaining supplies from 
the camp stores, making their meals, 


improving the site, perhaps giving one 
or two dinner parties for a few friends 
in camp, and going over to the camp 
for some of the special events. I think 
they would enjoy it. With a good 
counsellor, they could learn a great 
deal which would not only be fun at 
the time, but a fine introduction to the 
intricacies of summer cottaging. Will 
somebody try it? 

5. Cooking Acrobatics 

(A postcript by Mary L. North way) 

Cooking is an art, and cooks being 
artistic, are often exhibitionists. We 
enjoy each -summer, creating some¬ 
thing which is actually impractical for 
outdoor cooking, but in which we find 
satisfaction of achievenment enhanced 
with “ohs and ahs” of our friends. A 
few years ago, in this magazine, we 
described a Baked Alaska, done in a 
Dutch oven over an open fire. Last 
summer our main piece de resistance 
was an Angel Cake. These are tricky 
at the best of times, but Angel Food 
Mixes which cost about fifty cents, are 
intriguing in their magical qualities 
of making fine foamy whites out of a 
tiny package of dry white grains, and 
simplify the problem. Temperature is 
important for angel cake, and Dutch 
ovens have no thermometers. How¬ 
ever, over a period of time one de¬ 
velops an intuition for what kind of 
fire makes an oven that’s low, medium 
or high, and then one guesses! 

My first Angel Cake was a failure, 
although I followed directions, the 
winds did not, and as cook books do 
not usually state “cook in a medium 
oven and very light wind”, the change 
in temperature resulted in a product 
which we hid quickly in the cupboard 
and later ground up as part of a chic¬ 
ken dressing. However, one Saturday 
morning dawned clear, calm and 
warm. That was the day for the Angel 
(Continued on page 38) 


14 


Canadian Camping 


A Manual 


of Operations 

Roy D. Locke 

Executive Secretary: Boys 3 Camping, Montreal Y.M.C.A. 


At the present time in Canada there 
is no school for Camp Directors. 
There are occasional conferences 
where we hear interesting speakers and 
participate in some discussion groups. 
In general, directors of camps develop 
skill the hard way—by making mis¬ 
takes and profiting from them. 

In agency camps the camp director 
is oftimes changed every few years be¬ 
cause of promotions and other job 
changes. In most private camps the 
director is quite permanent, although 
some of the older private camps now 
have more frequent change or direc¬ 
tion as the original founder becomes 
too old too assume active control. This 
constant flux creates a serious problem 
to the camping movement. 

Individuals who have been camp¬ 
ing for many years as campers, coun¬ 
sellors, and program persons, have an 
intimate knowledge of some of the 
problems involved in directing a camp. 
However, the administration of a 
camp is a complex operation, and new 
directors are sure to make mistakes. 
When we realize that each camp has 
developed its own technique of pro¬ 
gram and administration, it is obvious 
that a change in the camp director 
may lead to inefficiency and needless 
friction. 

One major answer to this problem is 
for each camp to develop a “Manual 
of Operations” such as we have done 
at Kamp Kanawana of the Montreal 
Y.M.C.A. 


The manual has been organized into 
four sections, viz.—program, adminis¬ 
tration, buildings and equipment, 
general. Here are some of the things 
we have included: 

PROGRAM: A simple statement 
of our camp objectives such as em¬ 
phasis on simple living in the out-of- 
doors, Christian motivation, etc. 

—sample menus for hikes and canoe 
trips. 

—a seven page outline “Things a 
new staff member needs to know about 
Kanawana”. This is very valuable. It 
eases the orientation period. 

—detailed statement on duties of 
each staff person. 

—copies of tests for canoeing, row¬ 
ing, sailing ,and swimming. 

ADMINISTRATION: 

—statement on staff and counsel¬ 
lors; their rate of remuneration, pre¬ 
camp training, evaluation, etc., with 
detailed outlines of our existing train¬ 
ing courses. 

—a list of the items purchased for 
camp, the Company with whom we 
deal, its address, phone, and contact. 

—detailed list of duties for the City 
Camp Office, such as promotion 
methods, registration, bills, train ar¬ 
rangements, refunds, contacts with 
parents, lost and found, etc. 

—complete statement on operation 
of business office at camp, such as food 
control, inventories, campers 4 monies, 
tuck shop, etc. 

—a typical menu for a two week 
period is enclosed. 


Toronto, Canada, June, 1953 


15 


—statement on procedures to follow 
for emergencies and the operation of 
our camp hospital. 

—etc. 

PROPERTY, BUILDINGS , AND 
EQUIPMENT: 

Our boys’ camp was established in 
1894. It has been on its present site 
since 1910. A wide variety of buildings 
and equipment had been erected with¬ 
out a carefully considered plan of 
development. We had a log cabin 
painted with whitewash, cabins with 
painted clapboard, cabins with log slab 
siding, some with brown stain, some 
with the bark still on, etc. To bring 
order to this situation we numbered 
each building and developed a listing 
of the material in footing, walls, roof, 
their colour and their condition. The 
buildings were divided into three 
groups, poor condition, good condition, 
excellent condition. Each building was 
examined and a detailed recommenda¬ 
tion was made as to necessary repairs 
and changes. 

—Our property was surveyed and an 
expert forester employed to give a care¬ 
ful report on our 360 acres of forest 
for purposes of “thinning out” dead 
trees and replanting areas where neces¬ 
sary. 

—Standards were developed for re¬ 
pair, painting, and general care of our 
fleet of boats, canoes, and dinghies. 

—Procedure clarified for fire drill, 
care of extinguishers, maintenance of 
pumps, refrigeration equipment, truck, 
etc. 

—The thirty-two different locks were 
changed to a Yale master key system. 

—Etc. 

GENERAL: 

In this section we placed samples of 
all our forms, such as counsellor con¬ 
tracts, application forms, confidential 
forms, clothing lists, medical sheets, etc. 

In essence, this is a statement of good 


practice in the administration of a 
camp. Try it for your camp! 

The actual job of writing such a 
manual will force you to examine your 
current practices. This is the first step 
towards a more progressive standard 
of camping. 


Give Them 
Green Fields 

(For The Star Fresh Air Fund) 

Give them green fields for just a little 
while, 

Give them blue skies and sunlight on 
small streams, 

Give them the urge to run, to sing, to 
smile, 

To build the shining ramparts of 
their dreams. 

Let them forget for just a week or two 

The roar of traffic in the crowded 
street, 

Give them tall trees, with sunlight sift¬ 
ing through, 

And smooth pine needles underneath 
their feet. 

Let them forget the glare of city noons, 

The screech of brakes, the clatter of 
the cars, 

Give them the clear soft light of sum¬ 
mer moons, 

The clean, cool pattern of the sum¬ 
mer stars. 

Give them green fields for just a few 
short days, 

Green fields and meadows stretching 
mile on mile, 

Give them tall trees, and birds and 
woodland ways— 

Give them green fields for just a little 
while. 

—Robina Monkman 


16 


Canadian Camping 



H oodfire 
and 

Candlelight 

A Thank You to Mary S. Edgar, 
Editor of Canadian Camping 


The history of Canadian camping, 
unlike most history, does not begin in 
legend; it begins in the personalities of 
early camp directors who conceived and 
fostered it. Such persons as A. L. 
Cochrane, “Ernie” Chapman, Mary 
Hamilton, Taylor Statten, and Mary S. 
Edgar created their own camps with 
true artistry. Knowing well the medium 
in which they worked, their own crea¬ 
tion expresses the essentials of their 
individual personalities. Beyond their 
own camps, together they originated 
the Camping Association, and as long 
as it exists it will be indebted to, and 
will express the influence of their 
blended spirits. 

To Mary S. Edgar was allotted the 
particular task of editing this magazine. 
The choice was right and proper, for 
Mary Edgar has written since she was 
old enough to hold a pencil. She has 
written rhymes for her campers, stories 
for the campfire, songs for every occa¬ 
sion, hymns and prayers for summer 
days, and ghost tales to arouse delight¬ 
ful shudders. But an author does not 
fulfil his destiny by becoming an editor. 
Indeed, authors can indulge in business, 
teaching, ministering and housekeeping 
and still keep on being writers: they 
can rarely survive the tasks of editing. 



For editing means getting others to 
write, aiding them to express their 
ideas — not one’s own — more clearly, 
weighing one article against another to 
produce a balanced issue, and finally 
when the copy is in the hands of the 
printer, perhaps being allowed the 
privilege of creating eight measured 
lines to make up a space-filler. No one 
wants Miss Edgar to resign from her 
valiant task as editor. But if she must, 
it is our secret hope that freedom from 
correcting galley proofs will give her 
opportunity to write herself, and to say 
things which she has within her to say. 

For Mary S. Edgar has much to say. 
While theories of “campery” have 
waxed and waned, she has for thirty- 
three years been understanding campers 
and providing opportunities for their 
development at her own camp Glen 
Bernard, Sundridge, Ontario. While 
doing so, she has given thousands of 
children the happiest of summer holi¬ 
days, and has enabled hundreds of 


Toronto, Canada , June, 1953 


17 




adults to look back with most pleasant 
memories of their camping days. 

I remember in the early days that 
Miss Edgar, “The Big Chief”, organ¬ 
ized the camp into Indian tribes. This 
was fine for the big girls, but we little 
ones grew tired of being braves whose 
worthiness was often unrecognized at 
the glories of the Council Ring or 
through the prowess of athletic en¬ 
deavour. So a friend and I decided to 
form a tribe of our own to which only 
four of the youngest campers were to 
belong and in which we would each 
take turns being chief. At the first 
meeting of this unorthodox body, we 
debated whether anyone else should be 
included. By unamimous vote, one and 
only one person in the whole camp was 
considered worthy to be asked to join: 
that, of course, was Miss Edgar. And 
she did. We took her to our secret 
meeting place and, being slightly con¬ 
fused between Indians and Knights, we 
made her kneel while we dubbed her 
on the shoulder and initiated her into 
the secret tribe of the Kickapoos. In 
later years we have all learned a great 
deal about “group adjustment.” Be¬ 
cause we know all too well how to get 
the child to fit into the organization, 
all too rarely do we realize that adjust¬ 
ment can be effected by changing the 
child or by changing the organization. 
Camp directors do not as often as they 
should become the least of the braves 
in a tribe headed by their youngest 
campers. 

Miss Edgar’s camp is rather unusual 
because it is located in her own home 
community. “Mamie” Edgar was born 
and brought up in Sundridge, where 
her father was a merchant and member 
of parliament for the district, and her 
mother was the Beloved matriarch of 
the village. Little talk about relating 
the camp to the community was needed, 
for, from the beginning, it was part of 
it. Mr. McCabe, brought the mail in his 


lumber truck, Mr. Haggart fetched the 
milk from his farm, for an outing we 
would go haying at the Gibbons; while 
the event of the season was to attend 
the annual Hartfelt picnic and to take 
part in the concert. We went to the 
village regatta, and put on a play on 
the Anglican rectory verandah. Mother¬ 
ly Mrs. Edgar taught us that no piece 
of clothing was ever to be thrown away; 
it could be washed, mended or re-cut 
for children in the outlying farms, 
where it is very cold in the winter. 
Each Christmas, each camper sent gifts 
to a child in the community, and often 
an amazing correspondence ensued. 

In the war years, Miss Edgar con¬ 
structed a separate camp on her prop¬ 
erty called Shangri-la. This was used 
for English girls and subsequently has 
been loaned to various organizations. 
She more recently took the initiative, 
also, in establishing a community centre 
in Sundridge. To this the campers have 
contributed money raised through their 
concerts and plays, and the senior girls 
have participated as instructors in 
swimming and other activities for the 
village children. “Mamie Edgar and 
her Saint Bernard girls”, as they are 
usually called, are admired by the com¬ 
munity; they have contributed much to 
it and learned a great deal from it. 

Miss Edgar is perhaps best known for 
her creative imagination. Imagination 
can be an escape from reality-—In Miss 
Edgar’s case it is an extension of it. 
Secure in her real self, she can well 
afford to transform herself into Peter 
Pan, an Indian princess, or a gypsy 
fortune teller. The camp is gay with 
special occasions: Pippa day, Blue moon 
night, Japanese night, Tajar day. Her 
sense of the drama makes Council Ring 
an entrancing ritual and surrounds the 
sincerity of Sunday services with an 
atmosphere that is beautiful. Miss 
Edgar’s idealism and fantasy are not 
substitutes for her realism and practi- 
Continued on page 32 


18 


Canadian Camping 


ALAN F. KLEIN 

ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF SOCIAL WORK 
UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO 

Co-Author of 

It 3 * 11 i*e To Supervise 

Presents his new book 

SOCIETY- 

DEMOCRACY— 

AND THE GROUP 

Foreword by Harleigh Trecker 

AN EXTREMELY READABLE AND PRACTICAL BOOK 

A useful and down-to-earth analysis of democratic 
methods of working with young people in groups. 

Goals and methods are clearly presented In this 
new Canadian book. 

EXAMPLES FROM CAMPING ARE USED THROUGHOUT 

The advantages and dangers that every camp director, 
committee member, and counselor should know. 

- Flense Use Enclosed Order Form - 


Toronto, Canada, June, 1953 


19 



An Adventure 

in Mntmspect 

Winnipeg Girl Guide Camp Committee 

It is characteristic of planning com¬ 
mittees that they must look backwards 
and ahead at the same time, having a 
Janus-like skill in both past and future. 
Five years ago, the Manitoba Girl 
Guide Camp Committee met to talk 
about a dream that has since become 
a reality, to plan for a new and ambi¬ 
tious project in keeping with the tradi¬ 
tions and ideals which are the fountain- 
bead of good Guiding. The old camp 
had provided a wonderful camping 
experience for 20 years, but had become 
surrounded by summer cottages and 
was inadequate to meet the growing 
needs of the campers. 

The plan was for a new camp on a 
new site; resources for help were un¬ 
known and untapped; problems of 
financing and building and staffing were 
all unsolved. Enthusiasm and a convic¬ 
tion about the value of camping were 
principal tools to do the job, together 
with a reasonable assurance that if you 
really believe in something and work 
hard, you can make it a success. 

Like all youth services, the Girl Guide 
movement must pace its program to 
meet the present needs, to maintain 
standards of leadership second to none, 
and to attract those young people for 
whom it is designed. Camping is a 
most important aspect of Guide train¬ 
ing, and has always been a major item 
among the advantages of being a mem¬ 
ber. The high principles and teaching 
implicit in Guiding can be emphasized 
strongly and consistently during a camp 
period under good leadership. This was 
the basic thing of the Camp Committee 
as they went to work. Could the camp 
be built and opened without the loss of 


a season’s campers? Could they hope 
to do all this in a few short months? 
They could and did! 

They found that people are wonder¬ 
fully generous and helpful in every 
phase of planning, surveying, building, 
furnishing and advertising. The De¬ 
partment of Natural Resources helped 
select the site at Caddy Lake, three 
hours from Winnipeg in the beautiful 
Whiteshell Reserve. The Red Cross 
came to survey the waterfront. Camp 
Committee members, Guiders, Junior 
Leaguers and many husbands helped 
to clear the site of tangled underbrush 
and dead old trees. Donations of can¬ 
oes, a rowboat, a sailboat, material for 
a fireplace, the loan of a used car; the 
interest and generosity of the com¬ 
munity was manifest in a hundred ways. 
Volunteers trooped down to the camp 
as the building progressed, plodded 
through the rough road and set to work 
scrubbing and cleaning, oiling logs, 
burning rubbish, raking, helping in 
every possible job. 

Every year has seen new additions 
and improvements, but if you had gone 
out there yesterday this is what you 
would have seen: five acres of rugged 
terrain fronting a shallow bay sheltered 
by a rock peninsula, a sandy beach into 
the bay, with slowly graduating depth 
to eight feet ofT the diving dock, two 
gleaming cedar log buildings and an 
area which is obviously an ideal tenting 
ground, in view of trees and rocks and 
blue water. Just where the view is 
loveliest the girls have started to build 
a Chapel and are very proud of their 
handiwork in such a setting. 

The bigger of the two buildings has 
a dining hall-recreation room with the 
beautiful stone fireplace as its main 
feature, an enormous kitchen and store¬ 
room in the wings, a sick bay (known 
as “Buck-LTp”), nurses’ quarters and 
two bedrooms for programme assistants. 


20 


Canadian Camping 


In the ground floor is Tagar House, 
the tuck shop and three hot showers. 
The other building is the staff house, 
with three bedrooms, a dormitory, 
lounge and office space. 

In the area are trees of every sort, 
poplar, ash, birch, jackpine, balsam, 
spruce, oak, a lagoon with water lilies, 
there are raspberries, blueberries and 
wild iris in the woods. Special pets are 
a doe and her three fawn, a yearling 
and a set of photogenic twins. (Not 
so popular is the occasional unmolested 
skunk). In other words, it is a veritable 
paradise for the nature-lover, and an 
unparalleled training ground for wood¬ 
craft and overnight camping. 

One of the principal advantages of a 
camping experience is in learning 
watercraft, and Caddy Lake offers 
superlative facilities for swimming, 
canoeing, sailing and rowing. Skilled 
waterfront directors have been part of 
the camp staff from the beginning, and 
every year proudly point to a new 
group of graduates who have learned 
the right and the safe way to enjoy 
water sports. 

The camp grew out of the coopera¬ 
tive efforts of Guides, Guiders and their 
friends and families. Even the dock 
was built by a combined operations 
with planks given by individual Guide 
companies. It has continued to grow as 
a cooperative effort; leaders trained at 
Caddy Lake have gone to other parts 
of Canada to serve, American Girl 
Scouts have come up on exchange 
campships, employers have released per¬ 
sonnel to attend camp as leaders, special 
effort has been made to make the 
experience of camping available to 
those who would otherwise be unable 
to go, everywhere there has been a 
ready response to appeals for help. The 
results of this spirit of cooperation are 
in themselves a unique lesson to Guides 
and to the community of the value of 
working together. 


Camping has not escaped the chang¬ 
ing concepts of services to meet the 
needs of young people who are subject 
to so many pressures from all directions. 
Competition for their time and interest 
is heavy, and their standards are high. 
In order to propagate the ideals and 
teaching of the Girl Guide movement 
it is necessary to offer the best in pro¬ 
gram, in leadership and in standards. 
Caddy Lake camp is an example of how 
this is being done; the Commandant 
was assisted at the outset by a profes¬ 
sionally trained group worker as Pro¬ 
gramme Director, and now Guide per¬ 
sonnel is able to provide fully qualified 
Waterfront Directors and experts in 
campcraft and other departments. 
They bring to the camp the skills of 
planning and operating a programme 
designed to help produce good Guides, 
good citizens and good fun! 

This summer the campers will be in 
Junior and Senior groups—so popular 
has the project been that Senior girls 
are eager to return—and one of the 
features of the Senior programme will 
be three day supervised out-trips. A 
good advertising campaign, together 
with the glowing first-hand reports of 
campers, have resulted in an avalanche 
of applications to the point where you 
really have to be up bright and early 
to avoid the rush. 

It all began as an idea, a dream, and 
it has grown into a big business showing 
the finest results of all—happy young¬ 
sters learning in adventurous surround¬ 
ings about the world they live in and 
the people they live with. Those five 
years of hard work, ups and downs, 
planning and meeting and working out 
the details, have been rewarded. Now 
the old skill comes into play again and 
plans are underway for the future with 
a brief look back and a long look 
ahead. 


Toronto, Canada, June, 1953 


21 


Propane Has 


anti Its i s vs fur ih v Camp 


Gas has long been considered a 
superior fuel for cooking and water 
heating. It is used by most hospitals, 
institutions and hotels throughout 
North America, and through long ex¬ 
perience has proven to lead in efficiency 
and adaptability. During the last thirty 
years, gas service has been liberated 
from city mains by the development of 
Liquefied Petroleum gases of which 
Propane is the form generally used in 
Canada. 

Propane is a hydro-carbon produced 
from processing natural gas or from the 
refining of petroleum products. When 
placed under pressure it becomes a 
liquid occupying a space only 1/270th 
of that required when in its free gaseous 
state. In its liquid form it is easily 
transportable in railway tank cars, tank 
trucks and in relatively small steel cyl¬ 
inders. It is in cylinders that Propane 
reaches the camp site. 

Propane gas vapourizes at any tem¬ 
perature above 44° below zero and, 
when mixed with the correct amount of 
air, burns with a steady blue flame 
capable of a heat so intense as to be 
used in metal cutting and yet can be 
controlled to the tiny thread of heat 
needed to scramble an egg or melt a 
teaspoonful of butter. 

Propane’s heat content never varies. 
It contains 2J/2 times the heat value of 
natural gas and 5 times that of manu¬ 
factured gas, so it can be seen that a 
tremendous heat potential is stored in a 
very small space. The gas is normally 
delivered to the consumer in 100 lb. 
steel cylinders placed outside the build¬ 
ings and connected to gas appliances 


by flexible copper tubing. In cases 
where many appliances are used, rigid 
iron pipe may be installed to carry the 
gas. The number of cylinders required 
is determined by the number of appli¬ 
ances to be used at one time. Precise 
regulating equipment maintains a flow 
of gas to the appliances at constant 
pressure. After the cylinders are con¬ 
nected at the installation, the regulating 
equipment and thermostatic controls on 
the appliances take over, leaving the 
camp operator free for other duties. 

It is interesting to note that statistics 
on causes of fires in dwellings show gas 
and gas appliances close to the bottom 
of the list, while those traced to electric¬ 
ity are very near to the top, with oil 
and wood following closely. Propane 
has the added safety factor over other 
gases of being stored in equipment 
which must pass rigid safety tests before 
being placed in service. Propane gas 
is non-poisonous and non-lethal, except 
when present in such large quantities 
as to almost entirely exclude air from 
a room, a remote possibility. While 
Propane itself is odourless, an odourant 
added by marketers of the product 
makes a leak instantly detectable and 
the supply of gas from the cylinders can 
be turned off very easily until the neces¬ 
sary adjustment is made. 

By the simple manipulation of a gas 
valve, the operator of a gas appliance 
has immediately available the exact 
amount of heat required for the cook¬ 
ing job on hand. There is no wood to 
chop, no warm up period, and no 
disposal problem for ashes. The gas, 
burning without residue, leaves utensils 
clean and bright, and cannot corrode 


Canadian Camping 


or clog burners. Meals are prepared 
with less labour and more efficiency 
with automatic gas appliances. Res¬ 
taurant and hotel operators have 
learned from experience that slow roast¬ 
ing of meats in controlled temperature 
ovens produces the maximum number 
of cooked servings from each pound of 
raw meat. Gas gives a steady oven tem¬ 
perature automatically by the use of 
thermostatic controls built into the 
appliance by the manufacturer. On 
range-top burners you have a variety 
of heats available for any cooking job. 
Gas range manufacturers produce 
ranges especially designed for use with 
Propane. They have rugged, heavy 
duty equipment, ideally suited to camp 
use and yet as easy to keep clean as a 
white porcelain enamel kitchen range. 
The adaptability of gas cooking appli¬ 
ances for your camp operation is well 
worth investigating. 

An adequate supply of hot water for 
dish-washing and cleaning cuts down 
labour. A gas water heating system is 
designed to provide, automatically, the 
necessary amount of water at the tem¬ 
perature required for the job at hand. 
Two factors enter into the choice of the 
best water heater for any specific use; 
the size of the storage tank and the 
'‘recovery rating”, the rate at which the 
gas burner will replace water as it is 
drawn off. A small storage tank with a 
high recovery rating may possibly give 
better service than a larger tanf; with 
a lower recovery. Some of the newest 
types provide two-temperature water, 


one for general use and the other giving, 
the 180° water needed for sanitary dish¬ 
washing. 

The installation charges for Propane 
service are in the neighbourhood of 
$50.00 to $60.00, depending on the 
number of cylinders required. This pro¬ 
vides for an automatic system giving a 
continuous supply of gas without any 
action on the part of the operator to 
change from an empty to a full cylinder. 
In most cases the cylinders and regulat¬ 
ing equipment are leased from the 
distributor, with responsibility for ser¬ 
vice remaining with him. One hundred 
pound cylinders of Propane are sold on 
a sliding scale of rates to give larger 
users the advantage of a lower per- 
cylinder price. In restaurant and hotel 
cooking, the cost of Propane runs from 
/ 2 c to %c per person per meal. As 
camp meals are served at specific times, 
and are therefore cooked more economi¬ 
cally, it is reasonable to assume that the 
cost might be even lower. 

While cooking and water heating are 
undoubtedly the most advantageous 
camp uses for Propane Gas, the opera¬ 
tor already using Propane can extend 
the uses of his installation to provide 
dependable refrigeration for perishable 
foods and incineration to dispose of 
waste and garbage. Propane Gas in¬ 
cinerators automatically dispose of wet 
or dry garbage with equal facility. 

The labour saving properties of Pro¬ 
pane Gas and appliances are well worth 
the consideration of camp operators. 



TorontOj Canada , June } 1953 


23 


President's 
Newrs Letter 

Dear Camping Friends, 

We gather that most camping people 
have had one of the busiest spring 
seasons they have ever experienced. 
Camping Association Committees in 
the various Provinces have produced a 
good deal of worthwhile material and 
"several very helpful conferences and 
training institutes. We all acknowledge 
with sincere gratitude the work of the 
Committees which have produced the 
B.C. Camping Association Counsellors 
Institute, the combined Quebec and 
Canadian Camping Association Con¬ 
ference in Montreal, the Ontario Asso¬ 
ciation Conference in Toronto, the 
Manitoba Conference in Winnipeg and 
various Counsellor training courses in 
many centres all across the country. 

The annual meeting of the Canadian 
Camping Association was held on April 
18th in Toronto, and Minutes of this 
meeting are available to any member 
of the Association—please write our 
Executive Secretary at 236 Bloor St. 
W., Toronto. 

Mrs. Dorothy Douglas at the Insti¬ 
tute of Child Study, University of Tor¬ 
onto, has recently accepted the Chair¬ 
manship of a new Committee whose 
function it is to develop a Canadian 
Camp Song Book. We sincerely hope 
that all members interes ed in this im¬ 
portant phase of camp program will 
write Mrs. Douglas and give her their 
complete co-operation. 

A new book entitled, “Out-trip 
Camping”, written by Mr. Ron Perry, 
the author of “The Canoe and you”, 
and a long time member of our Camp¬ 
ing Association, will soon be available. 
At one of our recent Camping Con¬ 
ferences Mr. Perry gave a preview of 
the sort of material which is in this 


ok and it should prove exceedingly 
1 ipful. 

While we are speaking of books, 
please don’t forget that there is a very 
helpful library at our National Office. 
If you do not already have a bibli¬ 
ography be sure to write, and be sure 
also to make use of these books. 

A recent study of population trends 
indicates that within the next five years 
there will be a sharp increase (up to 
40%) in the number of camp age 
children. Your local Board of Educa¬ 
tion can doubtless give you facts and 
figures about this trend, which should 
make for even busier days ahead, as 
we all strive “to provide every oppor¬ 
tunity for young Canadians to be camp¬ 
ers”. 

Good Camping, 

W. E. (TED) YARD 


Canadian Cant piny 
Sony Kook 

You will receive a letter while you 
are at camp requesting assistance in 
securing songs popular at camp. If 
you have any special song or songs that 
you would like to see embodied in a 
Canadian Camp Song Book, please 
send words and music (if available) 
to 

Mrs. D. M. Douglas, 

76 Park Ave., Oakville, Ont. 



24 


Canadian Camping 



CANADIANS 
ARE CAMPERS 



ft 

JOIN THE CANADIAN 
CAMPING ASSOCIATION 

ft 


"MORE AND BETTER CAMPING FOR MORE 
AND MORE OF CANADA'S BOYS AND GIRLS" 

Services Offered: 

1. National Convention in co-operation with Provincial Associations. 

2. National Magazine—CANADIAN CAMPING—published quarterly. 

3. National office to co-ordinate national and provincial projects. 

4. Access to up-to-date camping library. By mail service. 

5. A part in promoting better Minimum Standards for all camps. 

6. Parent and public education regarding benefits of campinq. 

7. Active membership in nation-wide fellowship of camp people. 

Remember: Your membership in a provincial organization includes 
membership in The Canadian Camping Association 
and a subscription to "Canadian Camping 7 '. 

Information about Provincial Associations: 


BRITISH COLUMBIA - - Miss Crehan, 2057 W. 36th St., Vancouver 

MANITOBA - Miss E. Connal, 447 Isbister Pl #/ Winnipeg 

ONTARIO .Miss J. Bertram, 236 Bloor St. W., Toronto 

QUEBEC ------ Miss J. Brown, 5056 Western Ave., Montreal 


Where there is no provincial association: detach following form 
and mail direct to Canadian Camping Association, 236 Bloor St. 
W., Toronto. 


PLEASE ENROLL ME AS A MEMBER 

OF THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION v 

NAME. 

ADDRESS.. . .CAMP.... 

FEES (WHEN PAID DIRECT TO CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION) 

Camps $3.50 Individuals $3.00 


Toronto, CanadaJune, 1953 


25 
















CAMP CLEANLINESS 

OUR PROBLEM 

• YOUR PRIDE 

We are manufacturers and distributors of 

supplies 

for . . . 

Your Kitchen 

Your Laundry 

• Hand and Machine Dishwashing 
Compounds - Synthetic Detergents 

• Pure Powdered Soap 

© Sterilizers 

• Pure Soap Flakes 

© Kurly Kates 

© Liquid Chlorine 

• Pot Brushes 

• Wire Baskets 

© Paper Napkins 

© Elephant Laundry Bars 

© Butterchips 
© Dishcloths 
• Garbage Cans 

Your Washrooms 

Your Cabins 

© Drain Pipe Cleaner 

9 Pine Deodorizing Floor Scrub Soap 

• Liquid Hand Soap 

• Liquid and Paste Wax 

• Soap Dispensers 

® Brooms and Brushes 

• Waste Receptacles 

© Wet Mops - Mop Handles 

• Toilet Tissue - Rolls - Foldec 

• Buckets, Pails and Wringers 

• Paper Towels 

© Detergent Powder 

• Bar Bath Soap 

© Wiping Cloths 

© Deodorant Blox and Holders 

© Sweeping Compound 
© Tu-way Dustmops 

Your Out-Day Trips 

© Wax Paper - Sheets - Rolls 

General Maintenance 

• Light Bulbs 

© Paper Plates 

• Step Ladders 

© Cold and Hot Drink Cups 

• DDT 5% - Chlordane Sprays 

© Paper Bags 

• Chloride of Lime 

© Paper Boxes 

• Rubber and Cocoa Matting 

KERT MANUFACTURING CO. LTD. 

230 King Street East 

Toronto, Ont. 

Call and ask for our 

camp representative 

MR. JOHN HEARN 

at EMpire 3-6277 


26 


Canadian Camping 




Camp Leadership 
Training Courses 

BRITISH COLUMBIA 

The second annual Camp Counselors’ 
Institute, sponsored by the B.C. Camp¬ 
ing Association, was held in Vancouver, 
May 1st, at the Central Y.M.C.A. The 
speakers were prominent educators and 
campers, and there were theory sessions 
for three groups — the inexperienced 
counselors, experienced counselors and 
administrators. The activity sessions in¬ 
cluded waterfront, campfires, crafts, 
wet day programs, nature trails, display 
of materials and movies. 

The Planning Committee members 
were: Mr. Roy Holmes, Chairman; 
Mr. Frank Kennedy, Mr. Bill Bentley, 
Mr. Lome Brown, Mr. Dennis Nicker¬ 
son, Mr. Charles Roche and Mr. John 
Lidstone. 

ONTARIO 

The sixth annual Counselor Training 
Courses of the Ontario Camping Asso¬ 
ciation were held in May. A beginners’ 
course for first and second year counsel¬ 
ors was held at the Central Y.M.C.A., 
May 8th and 9th. 

Some of those assisting with the pro¬ 
gram were: 

Ted Yard—Camping Objectives 

Bill White'—Camp Singing 

Dr. Mary L. Northway—Flow Camp¬ 
ers Learn 

A. F. Helmsley, Dept, of Wild Life, 
Province of Ontario—Nature Lore 

Canadian Red Cross Society— 
Health and Water Safety 

Mr. A. Flynn, Oconto—What is the 
Counselor’s Job (with campers 6 
to 10 years) 

Dick McDonald, Y.M.C.A.—What is 
the Counselor’s Job with Adoles¬ 
cents 

An advanced course for counselors 
of two or more years’ experience was 
held at Falconer Hall, .May 29th and 


30th. The subjects dealt with were 
such as, “Relating Program to Objec- 
tibes”; “Relating Program to Needs” 
and “Discipline”. 

The leaders in charge of this course 
were: 

Mr. John Hoyle—Gay Venture 
Mr. A1 Goodman—Wabikon 
Mr. Kirk Wipper—Bark Lake 
Mr. Norman Cragg—Toronto Welfare 
Council 

Mr. Dick McDonald—Y.M.C.A. 


The Ontario Camp Leadership 
Centre (Bark Lake Camp) near Iron- 
dale, Ontario, is operated by the On¬ 
tario Department of Education as a 
service to the non-profit camps of this 
Province. Camp Bel wood, which was 
formerly the training centre for girls, 
has been closed. Courses for both boys 
and girls are now planned for the On¬ 
tario Camp Leadership Centre. Pros¬ 
pective counsellors may attend the 
Camp Leadership Courses offered dur¬ 
ing the summer months and thus be 
prepared to serve in a non-profit camp 
of their choice. 

The camp is situated in the heart of 
the Highlands of Haliburton in an ideal 
location which holds many attractions 
for the camp-minded young person. 
Good facilities are provided for all 
phases of camping. 

The camp programme includes a 
study of counselling methods with ex¬ 
perience in camp craft, nature lore, life 
saving, water safety in small crafts, out- 
tripping and other recreational activi¬ 
ties. 

The Ontario Department of Educa¬ 
tion provides instruction and accommo¬ 
dation and assists with transportation 
costs from distant Ontario centres. For 
complete information write to: The 
Director, Physical Education Branch, 
Department of Education, 206 Huron 
Street, Toronto 5, Ontario. 


Toronto, Canada, June, 1953 


27 




QUEBEC 


The Quebec Spring Conference ancl 
the National Camping Conference of 
the Canadian Camping Association 
were held jointly on March 27th and 
28th, at the Sir Arthur Currie Memori¬ 
al Gymnasium, Montreal, with over one 
hundred and seventy people attending 
the various workshops, meetings, dis¬ 
play booths, etc. 

The main speaker, Mr. Bob Rourke, 
of Pickering College, a well known 
humorous after-dinner speaker, started 
our Conference off on the right foot 
with his talk entitled “A Target for 
Camping”. The President of the 
C.C.A., Mr. Ted Yard, welcomed the 
group to the Conference, and Walter 
Meyer kept us active during his sing¬ 
song after a nourishing meal. 


For Your Resort 
or Camp . . . 

® Prompt and 
Reliable Service 

9 A Wide Range oi 
Products 

Fresh, smoked and ready-to-serve meats; Canned Meats, Fish, 
Fruits and Vegetables; Domestic Shortening; Tenderflake Lard; 
Margene; Butter, Eggs, Cheese; Poultry; Peanut Butter, Pickles, 
Olives; Jams and Marmalade; Soap Flakes and Toilet Soap. 
Prompt attention given all orders. 

We shall be glad to discuss how we can serve you best. 
Address: Sales Department, Toronto or Peterborough. 

CANADA PACKERS LIMITED 



ALL PLASTIC 

FLUTTER BOARDS 

Amazingly Light 
Full Size: 25" x 12" x V/ 2 " 
Weight: 20’ ounces 


price $2 95 

Tax Included 
AER-O-BOARDS withstand rough usage and 
their light weight allows easy handling and 
prevents injuries 
For these and any other 
Flotation Equipment contact: 

ROBINSON MOULDED PRODUCTS 

LIMITED 
183 George St. 

TORONTO 2, ONT. - EM. 3-6479 



• Completely 

Waterproof 

• Permanently 

Buoyant 

• Will NOT Splinter 

or Shatter 

• Supports 150 lb. 
person in water 

• Variety of colours 


28 


Canadian Camping 









The Workshop topics and leaders 
were: 

Canoe Tripping—Mr. Ron. Perry 
Song-O-Batics—Mr. Walter Meyer 
Child Development—Dr. H. Caplan, 
Dr. A. McLeod, Mr. N. Markus 
Crafts—Mr. W. McCurdy 
Administration—Mr. Irwin Haladner 
(Food Cost Control) 

Mr. John Venters 

(Camp Architecture) 
Each Workshop had three meetings, 
one Friday n : ght, one Saturday morn¬ 
ing, and one Saturday afternoon. 

Alter a chicken luncheon Saturday, 
Mr. Roy Locke, Past President of the 
Q.C.A., gave an impressive speech en¬ 
titled “Dividends of Camping” — of 
which there are many, we found, when 
we approach camping in the right way. 

Canon R. K. Naylor closed the Con¬ 
ference with a short but inspiring mes¬ 
sage on the Philosophy we should have 
for Camping—thoughts which came to 
him after reading Mr. Hoyle’s article 
in the February issue of the “Canadian 
Camping”. 

The Q.C.A. Executive felt that once 
again we had had a very successful 
Conference. 


The Quebec Camping Association is 
planning to hold its Annual Meeting 
the middle of May in the new Y.W.- 
C.A. The main speaker will be Mrs. 
Alice Turnham, a well known authority 
on nature, whose topic will be, “Camp¬ 
ing, Nature Bound”. Also on the 
agenda will be the reports from the 
President, Conference Chairman, 
Treasurer, Membership, and the Nom¬ 
inating Committee. The meeting will 
then be open for a general discussion 
on the proposed plan for the 1954 
Conference. Miss Anne Vail will bring 
the meeting to a close with a short 
'‘Good Luck, Campers” message to 
start us on our way to our fast aproach- 
ing camp season. 


Best . . . 

for Cooking and 

Volume Water Heating 

Bring City Conveniences 
to the work of Camp Operation 

— • — 

We carry a complete line of 
Commercial Gas Appliances. 
Information and advice 
without obligation 

— 9 — 

Superior Propane Limited 

Maple, Ontario 
EM. 6-4634 

Head Office: 26 St. Clair Ave. E. 
Toronto RAndolph 2137 


m 

We are prepared 
to discuss your 
CAMP CAPACITY NEEDS 
on large or small 

DISHWASHERS 
VERTICAL FOOD MIXERS 

and 20 lb. (and up) 

POTATO PEELERS 

25 years of efficiently 
and economically handling 
labour-saving machinery for 
the 

Camp Cookhouse 

G 5 BLAKESLEE* co 

LIMITED 

18 CRANFIELD ROAD TORONTO 13 



7 or onto, Canada, June, 1953 


OXFORD 1132 


29 












Girl Guide Camping 

The greatest stimulus to Guide 
Camping in recent years, was the 
National Camp of 1952. Guides and 
Guiders, over 1,300 of them, came— 
from Corner Brook, from Yellow Knife, 
from the Alaska Highway—to Ottawa. 

To watch these teenagers, English 
and French speaking; with their Prov¬ 
incial and civic phobias; ol 31 religious 
sects; of differing colours and ethnic 
groups; was an inspiration. The evi¬ 
dent traits of fine Citizenship and a 
broad vision was nurtured by this Camp 
augers well for the future. 

Summer of 1953 will see yet another 
National Camp; somewhat smaller, but 
this year for young Guiders from across 
Canada. It will be held at Doe Lake, 
Ontario’s Provincial Campsite; prim¬ 
arily for Training purposes, to keep 


pace with our rapidly increasing num¬ 
bers. 

—DOROTHY A. SELLERY, 
Commissioner for Camping 


f . G.I. T. Camping 

The biggest national C.G.I.T. event 
of 1952 was the camp held near Hunts¬ 
ville last July. 

Girls from every province met there 
to discuss the plans and policies of the 
CGIT. Some $2,400 was raised at 
camp to help an apprentice training 
school in West Germany for young 
refugees from the eastern zone. 

This summer, girls attending CGIT 
camps throughout Canada will con¬ 
tribute money for a children’s camp at 
Trieste. 



SERVING PLATTER SERVING BOWL 


MAPLEX cnce again has answered the demand of camp directors. Two pieces 
that are ideally suited for camp use. 

SERVING PLATTER —9" x 13". For meats, salads, eggs and many other uses. 
SERVING BOWL — 7Vi" x ll 3 /4"—2 quart capacity. For vegetables, stews, 
salads, desserts and anything else you wish. 

COLOURS: Coral, Yellow, Chartreuse, Forest Green, Burgundy and Pearl Grey. 

Order now for camp delivery 



30 


Canadian Camping 







Forest it a nqer School 

Ontario Department of Lands 
and Forests 

In expectation of a record influx of 
hunters and fishermen into Ontario’s 
justly-famed hunting and fishing 
grounds and resorts this year, the On¬ 
tario Department of Lands and Forests 
held a week-long school for licensed 
guides April 13 to 18, at the Forest 
Ranger School near Dorset. This was 
a continuance of an educational plan 
begun last year, when the course was of 
evident benefit to guides and public 
alike. 

The aim of the Department is to 
provide the best in experienced guides, 
able to discharge not only their duties 
to their parties, but also their responsi¬ 
bilities to the Province in the care and 
conservation of all natural resources, 
so as to ensure perpetual enjoyment of 
those sports which attract so many 
thousands here every year. 

Guides, some with 30 years’ experi¬ 
ence or more, received intensive train¬ 
ing in latest techniques peculiar to their 
special craft. Lectures and demonstra¬ 
tions covered such important subjects 
as water safety, first aid, handling of 
marine motors, fishing gear and latest 
firearms and, believe it or not, cooking. 
As camp cooks, most guides already 
boast enviable reputations. But there 
are always new wrinkles to help add 
that final soupcon of excellence to a 
camping party’s meals. 





tVe ate 

HEADQUARTERS 

for 

Tents Flags 

Dunnage Bags 
Pack Sacks 
Sleeping Bags 
Tarpaulins 

Everything in Canvas 

Complete Stock Marine 
Hardware 

JOHN LECKIE 

LIMITED TORONTO 

Halifax - Quebec - Montreal 
Winnipeg 

Vancouver—Western Leckie 
Limited 


Toronto, Canada, June, 1953 


31 











BOAT ACCESSORIES 

for every type of 
Water Craft 

A complete line of equipment for every marine need carried in 
our showrooms — 

SAILS - HARDWARE - ROPE - CANVAS - PAINTS - VARNISHES 

TOM TAYLOR LIMITED 

The Best in Quality and Service 

107 Front Street East EMpire 3-8761 Toronto, Ontario 


“WHERE THERE’S A WILL 
THERE’S A WAY” 

There’s truth in the old saying, and 
we know that if you plan now to attend 
the Twenty-third National Convention 
of the American Camping Association, 
February 3, 4, 5, 6, 1954, you will find 
a way, whether it be by plane, train 
or car. 

The New York Statler has set aside 
about eight hundred rooms to accom¬ 
modate members and friends of the 
American Camping Association, who 
will attend and who do not live in New 
York or the surrounding suburban area. 
Since this hotel has two thousand rooms 
with bath, this means that about half 
of the living space of this great hotel is 
available. 

This is a National Convention of the 
A.C.A., where East meets West and 
North meets South, and congeniality 


and good fellowship will be the order 
of the day. 

M oodfirv anti . . 

Continued from page 18 
cality, but rather they are supplements 
to them. It is right, therefore, that her 
own book of poems is entitled Wood- 
fire and Candlelight *. For Mary S. 
Edgar is completely competent in tend¬ 
ing the woodfires of life; but she knows 
full well that one cannot live by wood- 
fires alone, the spirit of the human be¬ 
ing is really lit by the soft glow of the 
candle. 

And so, Mary Edgar, we thank you 
for editing Canadian Camping for us. 
We release you from its ardours only 
because you yourself will now have time 
to sit down and “tell us all a story.” 

M.L.N. 

* published by Macmillan, Toronto, 
1945. 


NORTHERN ONTARIO'S FINEST RECREATIONAL AREA, FROM 
NORTH BAY TO MOOSONEE, IS SERVED BY 

ONTARIO NORTHLAND RAILWAY 

For information on desirable areas for Camps in new territory 
apply to: 

R. P. C. McLEOD, 

Traffic Manager, 

Ontario Northland Railway, 
North Bay, Ontario. 


32 


Canadian Camping 




Booh Reviews 

One Pot Cookery, by Eidola J. Bour- 
gaize; published by Association Press, 
N.Y., and obtainable in Canada from 
the G. R. Welch Co. *Ltd., Toronto; 
price $3.00. 

If you routdoor cooking needs a lift, 
get a copy of “One Pot Cookery”. The 
introduction gives suggestions which 
help make an outdoor meal a pleasant 
and memorable experience. It discusses 
the art of making a fire, ways of organ¬ 
izing the preparation of the meal, ways 
of packing food and numerous tricks 
of outdoor cooking. 

The recipes are favourites of camp¬ 
fire and kitchen, gathered from many 
localities. There are directions for mak¬ 
ing a can of meat more interesting; a 
variety of dishes containing eggs; 
delicious salads wrapped in a lettuce 
leaf, and something sweet for the end 
of the meal. 

A special feature for the outdoors 
lies in the fact that the pages are on 
rings in a sturdy cover, so it will stand 
up without them being turned over by 
the wind. As the title infers, it is a 
wonderful collection of “One Pot 
Meals”. 

F.M.M. 

Camping at the M:d-Century: A Cen¬ 
sus of Organized Camping in America, 
by Robert E. McBride, under the 
American Camping Association. One 
copy free to members of the A.C.A., 
additional copies $1.00. Obtainable 
from the A.C.A., 343 South Dearborn 
Street, Chicago 4, Ill.; pp. 42, paper. 

This is an excellent book for people 
who like to base their information on 
facts. Tabulation from data sent from 
6,032 of the estimated 12,600 camps 
operating in the United States in 1951, 
is given to show the number of types of 
camps and their regional distribution, 
numbers and age of campers, number 
of staff members, length of camp period, 


size of camps, costs per camper, etc. 
(A summary of the major findings is 
given elsewhere in this magazine). 

In addition to this, a history of camp¬ 
ing in the United States and a predic¬ 
tion of future trends are included. The 
outline of desirable practices as recom¬ 
mended by the A.C.A., is given. 

An admirable piece of research this 
is. It will enable camping people, 
government and welfare organizations 
to be a great deal clearer on the state 
of organized camping at the mid¬ 
century. 

M.L.N. 

Campfire Adventure Stories, by Allan 
A. Macfarlan, illustrated by Paulette 
Jumeau; published by the Association 
Press, N.Y.; obtainable in Canada from 
the G. R. Welch Co. Ltd., Toronto; 
pp. 225; price, $3.75. 

A highly-interesting book, composed 
of two novelette-length stories and six 
short stories. Allan Macfarlan has the 
happy faculty of making his descrip¬ 
tions of many animals such as the bears, 
wolves, moose, etc., really live. This is 
a book written by a Canadian about 
the Canadian Northland. Anyone who 
loves the out-of-doors will derive read¬ 
ing pleasure in these “yarns”. A book 
highly recommended for boys and girls; 
in fact, a MUST for your camp library. 
The illustrations by Paulette Jumeau 
are apt and very well done. 

B.M. 

National Camp Director’s Guide, 480 
Lexington Ave., New York 17, N.Y. 
Price $1.00. 

This is an annual edition of an 
important year-round reference book 
for more efficient management of 
camps. The 1953 edition contains such 
articles as the following: Creative 
Camping; Good Counselors mean Good 
Camps; Camus for Diabetic Children: 
Can Typhoid Strike,; The care of 
Lakes and Streams. 


Toronto, Canada, June, 1953 


33 


“I Live in the Woods”, by Paul Prov- 
encher; illustrated by the author with 
more than 200 line drawings and 35 
photographs; Brunswick Press, Freder¬ 
icton, N.B., $4.00. 

The master woodsman, who trained 
the Canadian Army in bush survival, 
now shows how anyone can survive in 
the woods. He does, himself, and com¬ 
fortably. 

Paul Provencher, author of “I Live 
in the Woods ,” published by Brunswick 
Press, leads a vigorous life in the Can¬ 
adian wilderness. Chief forester for the 
Quebec North Shore Paper Company 
and The Ontario Paper Company, 
Limited, he is also known as a photog¬ 
rapher, explorer, lecturer, and hunter. 
Indeed, with bow and arrow alone, he 
has shot everything from rats to bear. 

In “I Live in the Woods,” Proven¬ 
cher has written a book that appeals to 
every outdoor man and boy. Women, 


too, will acknowledge his skill in how 
to keep well housed and comfortable 
and well fed on a camping trip. 

Sleeping and cooking equipment, 
moccasins and snowshoes, lean-to and 
wigwam, snow goggles and snares— 
Provencher explains not only their uses, 
but how to make them. Details of 
construction he illustrates with simple 
drawings and photographs. 

While primarily a how-to-do-it book, 
“1 Live in the Woods” contains a thrill¬ 
ing description of the author’s explora¬ 
tions in Labrador. His experiences 
there and elsewhere north of the St. 
Lawrence River have enabled him to 
and winter travel in the woods, and the 
give practical advice on both summer 
proper clothing, footwear, and sleeping 
equipment for different seasons. 

Whether Provencher is showing how 
to make a tin stove, the trapper’s versa¬ 
tile crooked knife, or the most effective 



the 

famous 

ACKROYD 

DINGHIES 

are built exclusively 
by the builders of 

TAYLOR 

CRAFT 

Canada's Leading 
CRUISERS 
and 

SAILBOATS 

£ 


J. J. TAYLOR & SONS LIMITED 

on the Western Channel - TORONTO 


34 


Canadian Camping 






dog harness, his recommendations are 
clear and direct. Thoughtfully, for 
those travelling in areas where game is 
scarce, he lists edible plants and 
methods of preparing them for eating. 

“I Live in the Woods” is the most 
authoritative single book ever written 
on travelling and living in the Canadian 
wilderness. 


Canoe Camping, by Carle W. Handel; 
obtainable in Canada from the Copp 
Clark Co. Ltd., Toronto; pp. 185; 
price, $3.60. 

This is not only a book of high 
adventure, but it tells the reader how 
he can meet the challenges of the 
wilderness with a canoe, a light pack 
and a light heart. The author, a vet¬ 
eran adventurer through untrammeled 
wilderness, describes the correct way 
to plan and live a canoe camping trip. 
He tells the camper about food and 
equipment, the fundamentals of por¬ 
taging, what to do in emergencies and 
how to cook appetizing meals. There 
are many informative line drawings to 
supplement the text. 

M.S.E. 


Guide for Trainers of Day Camp Di¬ 
rectors, published by the Girl Scouts of 
America, 155 East 44th St., New York 
17, N.Y.; price fifty cents. 

More and more organizations are 
launching day camps, and increasing 
numbers of parents are requesting 
camping-by-the-day for their children; 
therefore, it is essential that more study 
should be given to the matter of train¬ 
ing leadership for this particular type 
of camping. This concise, practical and 
comprehensive guide book will be wel¬ 
comed most heartily by organizations 
planning leadership training and by day 
camp directors themselves. 


SPECIALISTS 

in 

Camp Medical Supplies 

and 

First Aid Kits 


A convenient Special Pre-Written 
Order Form for requisitioning your 
camp medical supplies is FREE on 
request. 

Write or Phone . . . 

Ingram & Bell 

LIMITED 
TORONTO 

Montreal - Winnipeg 

Calgary - Vancouver 


BOB WALLACE 

Hobhycraft 

"Make What You Like" 

Consult the practical 
Crafts man with years 
of CAMP experience. 

• Indian Headdress 

• Leathercraft 

• Sheilcraft 

• Art Supplies 

• Felt Craft 

• Wood Carving 

• X-acto Knives and Tools 

• Bersted Moulds 

• Camp Craft Supplies 

2387 Yonge Street, Toronto 
MOhawk 0967 



Toronto, Canada, June, 1953 


35 





For Your Information 

1. Available Recipes 

You can procure a very useful little 
pamphlet free from H. J. Heinz Co., 
Toronto, entitled, “Fifty-seven ways to 
use Heinz condensed soup”. The book¬ 
let contains thirty-eight pages of practi¬ 
cal recipes, many of which are very 
useable for camping trips—as for in¬ 
stance, Tomato Rarebit , which calls for 
one ten-ounce tin of tomato soup, a 
quarter pound of cut up cheese, heated 
in a saucepan, stirring constantly and 
when melted and smooth, adding a half 
teaspoon of mustard. This, served with 
toast, would serve four. If you don’t 
mind doing arithmetic, all the recipes 
can be made into quantity recipes. 
There is also available upon request, a 
leaflet, “When they’re growing up”. 
“Romany Steak” sounds very appetizing 
for a meal out. 

2. Cookies 

“Something different 
Something new; 

Some are cookies, 

Some you chew!” 

The Research Bakery Division of 
Swift Canadian Co. Ltd., Toronto, has 
prepared a mimeographed collection of 
special cookie recipes with such alluring 
names as “Oatsidoatsies” and “Hoky- 
pokies”. They have also assembled in 
mimeographed form, a wealth of infor¬ 
mation on “Better Pie Production”, 
with at least fifteen recipes for mouth¬ 
watering pies. 

—M.S.E. 

3. First Aid 

A useful little booklet entitled “First 
Aid” (advertising mercurochome) is 
available from Hynson, Westcott and 
Dunning, Baltimore, Maryland. It 
contains numerous illustrations of Boy 
Scouts administering first aid in many 
different emergencies, with diagrams 
for many kinds of bandaging. 

4. More About “Eats” 

Have you noticed in “One Pot Cook¬ 
ery” how many recipes call for luncheon 


meat? There as so many good varieties 
on the market in cans—spiced beef, 
spam, sausages, etc. The varieties will 
lend variety to the taste of the foods 
and one could experiment endlessly 
with various cans. 

A lot of recipes, too, require canned 
soups. The dehydrated soups are much 
easier to transport. Substitute them for 
the canned, using two small cups of 
liquid per can and double the amount 
of dehydrated soup for that quantity 
of water. 

—Margaret Govan 


When do We Fat ? 

It is fun to be a camper, fun to live 
and play out-of-doors, fun to get 
together with your fellow campers at 
mealtime for good companionship and 
good food! 

But good food doesn’t just happen. 
More and more camp organizers are 
realizing that meals must be as care¬ 
fully planned as recreation and other 
activities if a camp is to be rated a 
success. 

The Provincial Red Cross Nutrition 
Department would like to assist you 
with your camp meal planning — 
whether it’s for a two week or a week¬ 
end camp. 

Upon request they: 

WILL—plan menus for your camp. 

WILL—plan market lists. 

WILL—give suggestions for neces¬ 
sary equipment. 

If your work is planning camp meals, 
we would be happy to hear from you. 
Just write to: 

The Nutrition Department, 

Ontario Division Red Cross, 

460 Jarvis Street, 

Toronto, Ontario. 

(Sorry, but we just do this work in 
Ontario. If your camp is in another 
province, enquire from the local De¬ 
partment of Plealth. They may give 
this service.) 


36 


Canadian Camping 



7 inrarils a l*hilosophy 

(Continued from page 9) 

for periods running overtime and hence 
causing campers to dash breathlessly to 
the next activity. Certainly camp 
should offer opportunities for fast work 
but let it be at the right time and never 
under pressure. Psychosomatic special¬ 
ists tell us that pressure is one of the 
chief causes of ulcers, hyper-tension, 
and heart trouble which are claiming 
all too large a proportion of our citi¬ 
zens at far too early an age. 

A change in the programme schedule 
alone will not bring about relaxation. 
It will be necessary to sell the idea to 
every member of the staff and to secure 
their sincere, active, and intelligent co¬ 
operation. 

The writer is all too well aware as 
he concludes this article that it is prob¬ 
able that most of the readers are al¬ 


ready alert to the need of greater re¬ 
laxation in camp life. The camps that 
are guilty of putting on the pressure 
are those which do not belong to the 
several camping associations and who 
do not endeavour to keep abreast of 
changing conditions. However, it will 
not do any of us any harm (the writer 
included!) to take another look at our 
1953 programme to be sure that the 
basic objective of relaxation is function¬ 
ing as well as possible in our own camp. 



G.P.L. HEAVY DUTY Melmac TABLEWARE 



ATTENTION CAMP DIRECTORS 

This Tableware is produced to specifications set by The Canadian 
Government. Save up to 90% on replacements of dishes. 
Write for sample and full particulars to: 

GENERAL PLASTICS LIMITED 

150 Wellington St. W., Toronto - 1 1 17 St. Catherine St. W., Montreal 


Toronto, Canada, June, 1953 


37 














SOLIGNUM 

A wood preservative and stain 
—in many beautiful and practi¬ 
cal colors. 

T OXO 

A wood preservative — used 
where color is not a factor or 
when the wood will be painted. 

On wood preservative problems write or 
phone for our recommendations. 

STURGEONS Ltd. 

9 Sturgeon Rd. PLymouth 

Toronto 13 5-1171 


For Your 

CAMP BAKERY SUPPLIES . . . 

CANADA BREAD 

21 Vincent Street - Toronto, Ont. 

Shipments Prepaid to All 
Ontario Points 

"MIGHTY FINE BREAD" 


THE CAMP PROGRAM BOOK 

by Catherine T. Hammett 
and Virginia Musselman 

This is a one-volume encyclopedia 
on everything that goes into camp life 
as it relates to the camper. It organ¬ 
izes all the specialist information and 
know-how on: Program Planning, Liv¬ 
ing in the Out-of-Doors, Related Pro¬ 
gram Activities, Composite Activities, 
Specific Plans for Programs. An essen¬ 
tial tool for every camp. Price $6.00 

THE RECREATION LEADER 

by E. O. Harbin 

In "The Recreation Leader" Mr. 
Harbin shows, 

1. How to discover and develop 
recreation leaders. 

2. How to base a recreation program 
on a wholesome philosophy of life. 

3. How to evaluate correctly the role 
of recreation in character training. 

Written in simple, readable style, 
this book offers sound principles and 
usuable techniques for anyone who 
plans and directs leisure-time activities. 

Price $1.75 

Order from your local bookstore, or 

G, R. WELCH CO. LIMITED 

1149 King St. W. Toronto, Ont. 


Cooking Out of Room 

(Continued from page 14) 

Cake. I sent everyone away into the 
distance so that I could concentrate on 
the directions, the mixing, the fire and 
keeping one eye on weather changes. 
The white powder soon changed into 
a look of egg whites, the sugar was 
added, then the flour slowly cut in, the 
cake went in the oven; the wind stayed 
down; the fire burned properly. I sat 
in a deck chair and read a novel and 
finally the cake was cooked, cooled and 
at last served amid the “ohs and ahs”! 

I do not recommend that all camp¬ 
ers cook Angel Cakes, but they should 
each have a chance to do one bit of 
creative cookery. We spend a great 
deal of thought in developing creative 
work in music, dramatics and the arts, 
why not in cooking too? Baked Alaska 
and Angel Cake are the concerti of 
cookery. “Bake” is not so very dif¬ 
ferent from “Bach”, and over the 
stove even the most mundane of us 
can be artists for a little while, and 
discover that we, too, possess the skill 
and the soul of a creator. 

—★— 

Selecting A Camp 

Try to find the camp that allows the 
children a share of useful necessary 
work. Try to find one that gives the 
child the real life in the country, with¬ 
out trying to carry the life of the city 
there. The value of the season in camp 
lies in the fundamental principles of 
the simple life to be found there; no 
unnecessary frills; fresh air; quiet; 
peaceful long hours of sleep at night; 
simple nourishing food; essential work; 
enjoyment of the beauty of earth—its 
trees, flowers, and fruit; its wonderful 
skies, especially the night skies with the 
stars and the moon, its bird calls, its 
rich silences; the long days filled with 
useful labor, fun, happy companionship 
and peaceful aloneness. Let the chil¬ 
dren have this so that they may experi¬ 
ence some of the deeper, finer qualities 
—Angelo Patri 


38 


Canadian Camping 







CAMP DIRECTORS NOTE! 



in Lif/hter Vein 

THE CAMPER AND THE GUM 

Once there was a camper 
Her family sent her gum; 

Her uncles, aunts and cousins 
And boy-friends sent her some. 

“You must chew it in your cabin!”, 
Said her counselor tried and true, 

“For the powers-that-be have ordered 
This thing must be kept from view.” 

So she cut down on her swimming, 
Riding, hiking, sailing too, 

And within her little cabin 

She would simply sit and chew. 

The porcupines and chippies 

Were intrigued with what they saw, 

As they watched her roll her molars 
And manipulate her jaw. 

The habit was infectious; 

Cautiously they crept inside. 

She tossed them each a package; 

The chewing-game they tried. 

When she saw the forest creatures 
Chewing, chewing at the stuff 

“Gosh!”, she said, “I’ll take to camping. 
For of gum I’ve had enough!” 

M.S.E. 


■5fr # 


* 


Children between 4 and 17 are at 
their mental peaks. At 4 they know all 
the questions. And at 17 all the an¬ 
swers. 


Septic Tanks and Cesspools 
Outhouses and Privies 

Drains, Sump and Grease Pits 

CAN BE CLEANED CHEMICALLY 


Also 

Anaerobic Booster for keeping 
Septic Tanks trouble free 

Special Discount to all bonafide camp 
and resort owners. Write for folder 

Contact us for advice on any difficulties with 
your Septic Tanks, Cess Pools or other drain¬ 
age problems. 

TOWN & COUNTRY 

EQUIPMENT & SUPPLY 

EM. 8-3111 107 Mutual St., Toronto 

DISTRIBUTORS 

Town & Country Chemical Distributors 
SPECIAL UPTOWN SERVICE DEPOT 
1972 YONGE ST. (at Imperial) 
Telephone HU. 1-0331 
Open Evenings and Weekends 

HYDROSAN SEPTIC TOILETS 


GUMPERT HAS EVERYTHING 


latine Desserts 

B am Desserts dra ted) 

„» Drinks (Unhand D * hY 
tracts and Colours 

— 

lake Mixes 

w,.n 


FOR THE FINEST IN FOODS 


GUMPERT 


HAS EVERYTHING 


S. GUMPERT CO. OF CANADA, LTD. 

31 BROCK AVE., TORONTO ME. 5758 


Toronto , Canada , June, 1953 


39 






Answers to your Questions 


• * % 


Now ready for you — 

Completely revised sixth 
annual edition of this 
standard reference guide. 

Answers hundreds of 
your questions on camp 
administration, program, 
and operation. 


Prepared by the editors 
of Camping Magazine, 
the official American 
C a m p i n g Association 
publication. 


For camp owners, direc¬ 
tors, key-staff members, 
committee members, 
youth and recreation 
leaders. 


1 
9 
5 
3 

• 

Camp Reference 
and Buying Guide 


MORE THAN 6,000 copies already in use. Order yours now, while 
supply lasts. Send $2.00 for each copy wanted, direct to the publishers. 


GALLOWAY PUBLISHING CO. ZJZSTl. 


40 


Canadian Camping 








Did You Know That 


From a recent report of the A.C.A., 
based on information from 6,032 organ¬ 
ized camps, it was found that: 

In 1951 there were approximately 
12,600 organized camps in the United 
States. 

Although day camping is expanding 
rapidly, there are still three resident 
camps for every day camp. Resident 
camps are generally larger and serve 
more campers than do day camps. 

It is estimated that there were at 
least four million campers in 1951. 

Ninety-six percent of all campers in 
this study were school-age children. 

There are many more boys enjoying 
a camp experience than girls. 

New York, California, and Pennsyl¬ 
vania are the most heavily populated 
states and reported the most camps. 


The greatest number of camps served 
between fifty and one hundred campers 
per period. 

The greatest number of campers 
served was between nine and fourteen 
years of age. The largest group of boy 
campers was between eleven and four¬ 
teen, while the majority of girl campers 
was between nine and twelve years of 
age. 

Ninety-three percent of the organiza¬ 
tion camps had a camper fee of less 
than three dollars per day. Sixty per¬ 
cent of the private camps had a camper 
fee ranging from six to ten dollars per 
day. 

It is estimated that camper fees ex¬ 
ceeded eight million dollars in 1951. 

It is estimated that the total value 
of organized camp property in America 
exceeds 350 million dollars. 


CONSERVATION AND CAMPING GO TOGETHER 

Wise Campers know that conservation plays an important 
part in providing the pleasures of an outdoor tri Without it, 
many of our most enjoyable areas would be denuded of forest 
growth, void of fish and game, despoiled by pollution and waste. 

Conservation and camping pleasure are synonymous. Do 
your part to protect your camping pleasures. 

ONTARIO DEPARTMENT OF LANDS AND FORESTS 

HON. WELLAND S. GEMMELL F. A. MacDOUGALL 

Minister Deputy Minister 



Toronto, Canada, June, 1953 


41 








Our Friends 
the Advertisers 

G. S. Blakeslee & Go. Ltd. 29 

Camping Magazine . 40 

Canada Bread Co. Ltd. 38 

Canada Packers Ltd. 28 

Canadian Camping Magazine Co.... 19 

T. Eaton Co. Ltd. 3 

General Plastics Ltd. 37 

Gibbons Quickset Desserts 

Inside Front Cover 

S. Gumpert Co. of Can. Ltd. 39 

Ingram & Bell Ltd. 35 

Kert Manufacturing Co. 26 

John Leckie Ltd. 31 

Maple Leaf Plastics Ltd. .. 30 

McKague Chemical Co. Ltd. 4 

Ontario Department 

of Lands and Forests. 41 

Ontario Northland Railway . 32 

Robinson Moulded Products Ltd. .. 28 

Superior Propane Ltd. 29 

Sturgeons Ltd. 38 

Swift Canadian Co. Ltd. 

Inside Back Cover 

J. J. Taylor & Sons Ltd. 34 

Tom Taylor Co. Ltd. 32 

Harold H. Thompson . 42 

Town & Country 

Equipment & Supply. 39 

Vermont Accident Insurance Co. 

Outside Back Cover 

Bob Wallace Hobbycraft... 35 

G. R. Welch Co. Ltd. 38 


CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING 
!_ 

Writer with experience in camping and 
civil engineering desires position as 
watchman for winter months. Ab¬ 
stainer. References. 

Box 502, Canadian Camping 
170 Bloor St. W., Toronto 


CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING 
RATES: 

Five cents a word, minimum two 
dollars. All classified advertising pay¬ 
able in advance. Address all corres¬ 
pondence to “Canadian Camping”, 
170 Bloor Street West, Toronto, 
Ontario. 


Ontario’s forest fire detection system 
is regarded by visiting foresters as the 
best in the world. Operated by the 
Department of Lands and Forests, it is 
based on a lookout tower grid with a 
specialized type of ultra-high-frequency 
radio communication, augmented by 
aircraft patrol under conditions of high 
fire hazard or limited visibility. 



“I always told you a canoe was tippy!” 

—Forest and Outdoors 


CAMPS 

BUILT 

ANYWHERE IN ONTARIO 

Let's talk it over 


HAROLD H. THOMPSON 

Building Contractor 
Gravenhurst Ontario 


42 


Canadian Camping 

































Have you ever seen 


A SUMMER RESORT DESK? 





• Yes, there really is such a thing . . . though we must 
admit it looks more business-like than the one above! The 
“Summer Resort Desk” is an actual department at Swift 
Canadian ... set up for the sole purpose of giving special 
service to the summer resort trade. 

All you do is list your requirements and give to your 
Swift salesman—or fill in an order form from product and 
price lists supplied by us, put it in the mail, and we do the 
rest. Swift’s Summer Resort Department will 6ee that you 
get action—fast! Once or twice each week your order will 
be shipped to your nearest railway centre. And it will be 
a COMPLETE order! There won’t be any shortages. 

Use this special Swift service for your meat supplies 
this summer. Let Swift’s keep you supplied with ALL the 
fine Swift products! Just drop a line to the “Summer Resort 
Department”, Swift Canadian Co., Limited, Toronto — or 
your nearest Swift Canadian plant, or branch. 

SWIFT CANADIAN CO., LIMITED 















HAVE THE BEST 


CAMPERS' INSURANCE 


MEDICAL REIMBURSEMENT 
ACCIDENTAL DEATH 
TUITION REFUND 
EPIDEMIC 
POLIO 

We have paid thousands of dollars in 
claims for camps which are members 
of the Canadian Camping Association. 
Why not avail yourself of this excel¬ 
lent protection and thereby establish 
another medium of public relations 
with the parents? 

BEST IN COVERAGE - BEST IN SERVICE 


THE SIGN OF £ 
GOOD SERVICE ▼ 


VERMONT ACCIDENT INSURANCE CO. 

RUTLAND, VERMONT, U.S.A. 



RUTLAND, VT. 

• MAHTKKTvD WOO 






