Canadian 

camping 




OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OFFICIELLE 

THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION / L'ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU CANADA 

SUITE 2. 1806 AVENUE ROAD • TORONTO, ONTARIO M5M 3Z1 
TELEPHONE (416) 781-4717 


Vol. 31 
March 


No. 2 
1979 









Canadian 

Camping Association 


0.0.A. COMMITTEES, PROJECTS AND TASK FORCES 
(continued from the December issue) 

The Committees, Projects and Task Forces 
of the C.C.A. are many and varied. Some 
are related to the internal workings of 
the Association, while others reach out 
to other organizations, to the general 
public and internationally. 

Some very successful programs have been 
initiated by the Canadian Camping Asso¬ 
ciation: The Canoe Instructors 1 

Schools , originally a C.C.A. Project, 
have been taken over by the Canadian 
Recreational Canoeing Association. The 
purpose of the schools is to qualify 
canoe instructors in a set of national 
standards for canoeing so that courses 
in canoeing, canoe-tripping and canoe 
instruction can be offered in Provinces 
across Canada. The Woodsmanship Lea- 
ders' School, a current C.C.A. Project, 
organized by the C.C.A. and funded by 
the Fitness and Amateur Sport Branch, 
Ministry of National Health and Welfare 
has been operating for four years and 
is now planning a Winter Woodsmanship 
Pilot School as well as publishing an 



Instructor’s Manual in both French and 
English. Woodsmanship Schools are de¬ 


signed to upgrade the knowledge, skill 
and appreciation of outdoor living. The 
Skill School Project looks at other camp¬ 
ing skills which can be taught, similar 
to the Canoe and Woodsmanship School. 

Some of the camping skills for which 
we are planning instructors' schools are: 
Social Recreation (songleading, story¬ 
telling, campfire program, games leader¬ 
ship), Pioneer and Native Crafts, Fitness 
at Camp. Camp Administration, Program 
Planning and Nature Awareness. The aim 
is to decentralize all the schools, once 
competent leaders have been trained to 
a national set of standards. A new com¬ 
mittee, Liaison with National Agencies 
is already working to establish rapport 
with other national agencies who have 
their own camping programs, and is plan¬ 
ning a meeting to bring these agencies 
together in order to share ideas and 
keep everyone involved in camping up-to- 
date, in tune and co-operating without 
relinquishing the unique qualities of 
each agency's camping program. 

The Public Relations and Promotion Com¬ 
mittee and the Newsletter Project are 
interested in the dissemination of in¬ 
formation about the C.C.A. to all the 
people in Canada and even abroad. The 
Newsletter is published six times a 
year and is sent to all members of the 
Provincial Associations free of charge. 

The subscription price is $5.00 a year. 
Several stories about the C.C.A. and its 
work have appeared both in the news and 
on T.V. and radio as a result of the ef¬ 
forts of the P.R. and Promotion Committee. 


Many successful Conferences have been 
organized by the C.C.A. and more are on 
the way. The National and International 
Conferences tiommittee has been coopera¬ 
ting with the American Camping Associa¬ 
tion on the first-ever International 
___(c ontinued on p age 3) 


2 


Canadian Camping Association 


(continued from page 2) 

Camping Convention to be sponsored 
jointly by A.C.A. and C.C.A. It was 
held in Minneapolis, Minnesota on Feb. 
19 - 24, 1979 and was entitled "North¬ 
land Calling." 

Sometimes other Committees have linked 
up with the Conference Committees and 
the result has been a highly success¬ 
ful joint effort such as the French 
Language Camping Conference (1976)and 
the Outdoor Education Conference (1974) 
The content of each Conference is ga¬ 
thered together and each of these re¬ 
ports may be obtained through the Pub¬ 
lications Committee at the National 
Office. 

The Publications Committee published 
the very successful The Nurse and the 
Health Program at Camp last year. As 


THE NURSE 
ANDTHE 
HEALTH 
PROGRAM 
AT CAMP (§& 



well as running a book sale service of 
camping related books for both camps and 
the public, we hope to initiate a "How 
To" series that will invite creative 
writing on many camp subjects. 

The Oral History Project and the Archives 
Committee are concerned with preserving, 
for all time, knowledge of the camping 
movement, the camps and their directors. 
They work independently, but the result 
of their efforts will be felt by coming 
generations in the. material being gathered 
by these Committees on the subject ofcamp- 


ing. Education and training results 
in better leaders and better camps, 
and this is the aim of both the Lea¬ 
dership Training Committee and the 
Professional Development Committee. 

The latter, formerly the Standards 
Committee, is directed to Camp Direc¬ 
tors, senior leaders and the camps 
themselves, while Leadership Training 
is aimed at the camp leaders of the 
future. These Committees plan train¬ 
ing workshops in various parts of the 
country for the purpose of improving 
standards, leadership qualities and 
knowledge of camping. 

Task Forces have been established and 
are aiming their efforts toward Rela¬ 
tionships with Federal Government, 
the Immigration Law as it pertains to 
foreign camp counsellors and C.C.A. 
Membership Promotion. 

Chairmen of C.C.A. Committees, Projects 
and Task Forces are as follows: 

Archives - Helen Stewart 

Federal Government Relationships - Jack 

Pearse 

French Language - Rosaire Corbin 
Immigration - Barry Lowes 
Leadership Training - Jean Funk 
liaison with National Agencies - Larry 
Bagnell 

Membership. Promotion - Eileen Mayotte 
National and International Conferences- 
John Latimer 

Newsletter -«Brian Blackstock 

Oral History - Jay Haddad 

Professional Development - Linda Arnold 

Publications - Fred Okada 

Public Relations and Promotion - Derek 

Walsh 

Skill Schools - Jim Winter 
Woodsmanship - Kirk Wipper 

The above Chairmen can be reached though 
the National Office. The new address is; 

1806 Avenue Road - Suite 2 
Toronto, Ontario M5M 3Z1 
(416) 781 4717 


3 






The COUNSELLOR'S Pa 


MOTIVATING SENIOR CAMPERS 


by bob slingerland 


^Any discussion involving the mo- 
B ^ tivation of senior campers should 

i motivating these young people is 

|l ~f- v 8 problem then perhaps we can 

^ start by keeping these character- 
^k. istics in mind. To me, the senior 

0 » y i ^ Jr f campers are ones who feel that 

r* with maturity they should be get- 

^ ting more privileges and respon- 

—.. /jfjfe"r- HaF* siblities as well as free time 

(jp^fr ~ —and opportunities to be lazy and 

* j , ‘ ^ _ . * _ _ to be alone to think. They have 

a desire to become more indepen¬ 
dent, and are more influenced by example than talk, they appreciate privacy and the 
value of a few close friends, and are sensitive to criticism. The senior camper 
knows a lot more than I did when I was his age and can be cocky and too sure of him¬ 
self at times. They have more self-discipline than younger campers, are more aware 
of their environment and yet still went to know what their limits are and how far 

they can go. / _ v 

(.continued on page 5 ) 



A 





MOTIVATING 

SENIOR CAMPERS (oontinued fro " 5886 4 * 

ATMOSPHERE 


The most important motivating factor within a senior section is the spirit 
or the atmosphere that exists in the section, and whether we call it spirit or 
atmosphere, we are the ones who create it. If you as a staff enjoy one anothers' 
company, work well together and go out of your way to make the staff you work with 
a happy one, it will rub off and create an atmosphere that will make other types 
of motivating much easier. 

Another motivation is in having a well planned programme. At camp the plan¬ 
ned programme should be set up one week in advance. Quite often it is these acti¬ 
vities that senior campers prefer to avoid. For some time the two activities 
avoided in my section were swimming and. canoeing. As a motivating device the coun¬ 
sellors in my section decided the entire section should go swimming as a group and 
that we should participate in the class. Strangely enough campers couldn't find an 
excuse to avoid swimming in that their counsellors had to swim as well. As a mat¬ 
ter of fact, swimming became rather popular even in August last year - possibly 
because the campers got a chance to show up their counsellors, but more likely 
because the staff united as a group to promote an activity by participating in it. 
That kind of sacrifice is what creates atmosphere. 

EVENING PROGRAMME 


Another factor that motivates senior campers was the evening programme, which- 
was always optional. The campers were always encouraged and made aware of the fact 
that there would be an evening programme and what the programme would be, well in 
advance. The programme was always followed up by a campfire. The only stipulation 
as far as the evening programme was concerned was that if they did not want to par¬ 
ticipate they would have to make other arrangements to constructively use their time. 
Usually 75 to 80% got involved in the programme, which enabled them to get to know 
other campers and this again helped to create atmosphere or spirit. 

SPECIAL PROGRAMME 

A tremendous factor in a section is a special programme,'whether it be within 
the section or run by the senior section for a younger age group. At the beg innin g 
of both months in the senior section of my camp a prgramme was devised that involved 
a great deal of work as well as cooperation. The programme was a canoe rally and 
was set up in such a way that the kids had to work together. It was challenging, 
provided a feeling of accomplishment and helped campers get to know one another. 

It was a good way to start off the month. During each month time was provided for 
the senior campers to work with and come up with a programme for younger campers. 

It is really amazing to watch these kids go to work when they feel that they are re¬ 
garded as responsible, and I suggest that more opportunities along these lines 
should be considered and given. 


To sum up - motivating the senior campers is not a tremendous task, if there 
exists good feeling within the section. In my opinion, good feeling and spirit or 
atmosphere makes motivation a breeze rather than a hurdle that must be overcome 
over and over again. 


5 




NO TRACE CAMPING 

by kevin redmond 

The pressures on land, both urban and rural, are directly related to the misuse 
and abuse of the physical environment. Concern by people such as ourselves, is a 
direct symptom of the mismanagement of environment. The highest priority for land 
today is tied to economics, not to the intangible values of space for the sake of 
space as in camping. 

Camping, its survival and continued growth depends on the wise use of our na¬ 
tural resources. Man requires plants and animals for his survival. Without them 
he cannot exist, yet quite ironically, man is the only animal that is capable of 
completely exterminating other life from the surface of the earth. As campers in 
Canada we must become aware of our responsibility to our natural resources* We 
must use them with wisdom, knowledge, meticulous care and respect. 

For Daniel Boone, camping was an occupation. For us it is a prime recreation 
activity. This transition is continuing and is evident by the increasing number 
of children who attend camp each summer. 

Yet despite camping's present recreative content, the techniques of camping 
are still as primitive as those of the pioneer. A pioneer's survival depended 
upon his skill to shape the environment to meet his ends. 

What are the ethics of camping? 

There are some who would argue that there is no need for areas of land left 
as God made them. Fortunately there are many of us who are becoming aware that 
a place of solitude, a place of quiet, a place where man and his works are nowhere 
evident by sight, sound, smell and even taste; is a necessary heaven to which we 
can escape from the daily pressures of modern life. A beautiful view in the dis¬ 
tance is not enough. We want to be immersed in the wilderness. We want to feel 
that we are the only human beings to have set eyes on this particular vista. 

This renews the soul. 

But appreciation of the values of the wilderness is not enough. If more and 
more people see the pleasures of solitude and quiet in the wilderness, we are 
going to have to change from the pioneer camping ethic or we will destroy the 

t 

very values we seek. Beware of the traditions - axes, saws, elaborate latrines, 
garbage pits and material shelters, all of which can be found in camping texts. 

(continued on page 7 ) 


6 



NO TRACE CAMPING 


(continued from page 6 ) 


Beware of the modern technological influence on camping - disposable lighters, alu¬ 
minum foil, plastic sheeting, these items have their place, but judging from the 
quantity to be found about almost any campsite, they are considered disposable by 
too many campers. 

GROUPS 


Large groups do not belong in the wilderness. The organization of trips with 
more than 20 people is bound to leave its mark on the ecology. The tolerance varies 
but it is difficult to imagine how more than 10 people could spend a night in an 
undeveloped spot and leave no trace. 

The wilderness must be protected from various industries such as lumber, mining 
and tourist etc, but also the camping techniques being taught today and endanger 
the wilderness. We must endeavor, to leave no trace, to help circularize this 
ethic we should abide by a Wilderness Travellers Creed 

- I believe that man can travel through the wilderness and leave no trace. 

- I will keep my groups small. 

- I will not cut down trees or branches. 

- I will not build fires or if I do I will keep them small and scatter their 
remains 

- I will leave no trace or evidence of my story. 

- I will LEAVE NO TRACE. 

I do not mean to suggest locking up the wilderness. Wilderness will best be 
preserved by exposing more people to its beauties,but we must do this in the least 
destructive way possible. 


We must develop modes of travel that leave no trace, to judge an act it is only 
necessary to ask ourselves, "Will the next traveller be he a couple of hours or 
years away, know that you have been there?" 

Now, what means of travel are appropriate to the wilderness? Obviously a 
powered vehicle with it's noise, smell and wheel treads is disqualified before it 
has gone 100 yards. How about a motor on a canoe - well - one small oil slick 
is enough to count that out. What about a snowmobile, can you picture yourself 
sunning, in the wilderness on a clear, crisp winter day and all of a sudden the 
peace and solitude is destroyed by the churning of snowmobiles, as they whip on 
by leaving their trace of noise and cut tree tops. 

This leaves us with foot travel and hand paddled canoe travel as two accep¬ 
table means that leave no trace. In winter skis and snowshoes qualify as foot 
travel. Wilderness travel by paddle or foot need not be physically strenuous, 
yet so long as progress is equated with not having to perform any physical exer¬ 
cise, there will be people who consider it unreasonable to walk or paddle. I "do 
not" belive these people have a right to destroy our wilderness. 


HOW DO WE USE FIRE AND LEAVE NO TRACE? 




There are two ways of approaching this problem, one is to carry a stove. Ob¬ 
viously if you use a stove it is easy to leave no trace, but you must remember you 
will have to carry out all your garbage. 

However we must face the fact that the smell and warmth of a wood fire are two 
of the single joys of camping, but to eradicate the signs of a wood fire requires 
_ _(continued on page 12) 



Book Reviews 





Reviewed by K. Grant Kerr 
United Church of Canada 

An insightful introduction and preface 


GOD MAW LAND , by Paul Paetkau, 

Faith and Life Press, 724 Main St., 

Box 347, Newton, Kansas 67114, 

$5.25 (softbound) pp. 156, 1978. 

This coil bound book written for the 
Mennonite Church is an excellent re¬ 
source. Its content seeks to integrate 
Bible study, nature lessons and camp 
activities into a total "interrelated" 
experience. The author holds a PhD. 
in biology education and is a consul¬ 
tant on environmental matters. The 
book has seventeen five-day programs 
within its 156 pages with particular 
emphasis on age groupings - eight 
programs for 9-11 year olds; six for 
12-13 year olds; two for 14- 16year 
olds. One program is easily adaptable 
for bicycle, canoe or backpacking camps 
or for adult camping. Each program is 
carefully outlined in detail. 


covers several general topics including a 
theology for Christian camping, age level characteristics and some general prin¬ 
ciples for working with small groups. 


Finding Summer Staff , by Alice Bullwinkle 
and Howard Galloway, Galloway Publications, 
2940 NW Circle Blvd, Corvallis, Oregon 97330 
pp. 156, $9.85 (softbound), 1979. 


Anyone who must find and employ summer 
staff for a day or resident camp, rec¬ 
reation program, playground or park 
will want Finding Summer Staff , just 
produced by Oregon State University 
Bookstore for Galloway Publications. 

The new book's listings are a result of 
completely fresh research which takes in 
to consideration not only changes in 
skills sought and available, but also 
the vast changes which have taken place 
in the educational field in the last ten 
years. These include changes in courses 
offered by older institutions and devel¬ 
opment of many new community colleges. 
For the first time Canadian listings are 
included. 

Rounding out the content is a timely 
series of articles. Included, is a 
year-round calendar of staffing activi¬ 


ties, a discussion of why job descrip¬ 
tions are important and how to prepare 
them, a plan for getting the most out 
of job-candidate interviews, a method 
for using an interest inventory during 
an interview ( and after employment) 
and pointers on obtaining and evalua¬ 
ting references. Several specimen forms 
for use in staff selection include a 
job application form, an interest and 
training-need inventory form, a form 
for obtaining useful information from 
persons listed as references by job 
candidates, and staff employment agree¬ 
ment. 

The 1979 edition of Finding Summer Staff 
provides help for both the beginning 
leader in summer program management as 
well as the experienced person concerned 
with securing the most capable summer 
staff possible. 


8 


i 


(BWWS ©IF HMfW ILraM© 

BASIC NEEDS FOR MENTAL HEALTH FROM CHILDHOOD TO OLD AGE 

Prepared for the Ontario Teachers Federation 
by THE CANADIAN MENTAL HEALTH ASSOCIATION 


Mi 

INTELLECTUAL 

EMOTIONAL 

SOCIAL 

PHYSICAL 

P*e- 

School 

1 to. 5 

By play to develop muscular 
control, Imagination, range 
of knowledge. In late pre¬ 
school to distinguish make- 
believe from truth, make 
decisions, note and describe 
surroundings. 

Spontaneous laughter and 
high spirits; fear not used as 
means of controlling be- 
havious; affection, serenity 
in the home without rigid 
control or standards beyond 
child’s ability. 

After age two, play with 
other children, preferably 
nursery school; in late pre¬ 
school sharing with play¬ 
mates and considering 
others. 

Breast feeding if possible. 
Adequate provision of suit¬ 
able food, living quarters, 
sleep, fresh air, sunshine, 
play area, physical and 
dental check-ups, im¬ 

munization. 

School 
\IfeaM 

6 to 13 

Learn to concentrate, ob¬ 
serve accurately, weigh 
facts, think independently, 
use curiosity to extend know - 
ledge. Elders to give 

direction without regimen¬ 
tation. Free access to 

books, music, films, radio. 

Affection and interest of 
elders to build sense of 
worth, security and belong¬ 
ing; self-discipline and self- 
confidence by taking respon¬ 
sibility for own welfare and 
others. No prejudice. 

Group games; church, club, 
camp life; learn to lead and 
follow leadership; to enjoy 
helping others and join 
group projects for com¬ 
munity welfare. 

Physical training, athletics, 
health check-ups, good food, 
housing, clothing, safety 
education, play space and 
equipment, school lunches. 

youth 

13 to IS 

Continued school attendance: 
vocational guidance; study of 
government, international 
affairs;take part in informal 
discussions in family and 
school; recreation centres. 

More self-reliance through 
tasks needing skill and sta¬ 
bility. Reasonable leeway in 
making decisions. Conscious 
efforts for good work habits. 
Financial security. 

Companionship of opposite 
sex in young people’s groups, 
parties, sports. Lead junior 
groups in church and char¬ 
acter-building agencies. 

Responsibility for personal 
health. Support to activities 
of local health department. 
Safety, health, and sex 
education. 

SasUtf. 

Adult 

18 to 25 

Learning on the job. Home 
study; night classes; in¬ 
formal study of science, 
history, religion, fine arts. 
Suitable employment. 

Balance of work and play 
with frequent opportunities 
for carefree fun. Love, 
marriage and children. 

Intimate friendships for 
sharing joys and sorrows. 
Active in church and com¬ 
munity groups. Consider¬ 
ation for other age groups. 

Cooperative community. 

Readily available instruction 
and opportunity for sports; 
outdoor life. Health check¬ 
ups; pre-marital examin¬ 
ation. 

Ca/dtp 

| Maturity 
25 to 40 

Greater responsibility as 
citizens. Share ideas, 

skills, hobbies with youth. 
Parent education. Increased 
skill in one's job. 

Learn through experience 
and religion to face realities 
of life with courage and 
enthusiasm. Help carry 

burdens of weak. 

Friends from variety of 
social backgrounds. Head 
clubs. Know youth and old 
age. New recreations , 

travel. 

Regular health check-ups; 
active sports in moderation: 
avoid overweight. Good 

health habits. 

Quit 
Matusuty 
40 to 60 

Keen for new ideas to give 
better leadership. Active 
in community and public 
affairs. Constructive use 
of acquired skills. Continued 
useful employment. 

Poise without rigidity. Self- 
training in tolerance and 
understanding. Broad human 
sympathies. 

Inspire younger people to 
take responsibility by be¬ 
lieving in them and planning 
with them. Acquire habit of 
helpfulness to others. 

Regular exercise in moder¬ 
ation. No sudden exertion. 
Periodic health check-ups. 

Jlat&i 
Mdtu/uUf. 
60 and oh 

_ 

Forward thinking enriched 
by accumulated knowledge 
of lifetime. Encourage 

younger people to extend 
responsibilities. New 

hobbies; useful activities. 

Earn recognition and 

affection by giving happiness 
to family, community and 
friends. Opportunity for 

independent thought and 
action. Contemplation of 
things that count. 

Keen interest In old and new 
friends. Opportunities for 
recreation and meeting con¬ 
temporaries. Extend life 
experiences by taking joy 
and happiness ip achieve¬ 
ments, of others. 

Physical exercise but avoid¬ 
ance of fatigue. Daily rest 
periods, fresh air, sun¬ 
shine. food in moderation. 
Social security. 



For further Information 
about Mental Health write to 


THE CANADIAN MENTAL HEALTH ASSOCIATION 

METROPOLITAN TORONTO BRANCH 











































MAINTENANCE 

TENT FRAMES AM) PLATFORMS 

Use "construction grade" spruce or whatever appropriate type of lumber which 
can be purchased reasonably to build permanent tent frames. These will save 
wear and tear on your tents as well as making them more spacious. This design 
comes from Camp Onondaga in Ontario. 


APRIL 1979_AVRIL 


SCA Woodsmanship School 
10-16 OCA Woodsmanship School 


MAY 


1979 


MAI 


6-8 

6-8 

10 

17 

27 

27-29 

27-29 


ACQ Formateur multiplicateur 11-C 
0CA-C0E0 Conference/Workshop 
Boyne River Nat. Sci. School 
OCA Annual Meeting - OSCC - Toronto 
CCA Executive Meeting - Toronto 
ACQ-QCA Executif provincial 
ACQ Seminaire des directeurs - 
theme: La communication 
SCA Spring Conference and Annual 
Meeting - Echo Valley Centre 


9 

10 
12 

24-26 

25-26 


ACQ Recontre - Region de Quebec 
ACQ-QCA Assemblee Annuelle 
OCA Counsellor Conference - Cen¬ 
tennial College - Toronto 
CCA Annual Meeting - Nova Scotia 
ACQ Session destinee aux moniteur 


JUNE 


1979 


JUIN 


Wood will last longer if a preservative is applied before construction. Note 
that the platforms are all raised above the ground. This allows for good cir¬ 
culation of air and significantly deters rot. In this instance cement blocks 
tjave been used, however rocks will do just as well. Consider prevailing winds 
before setting up your site. 

- COMING EVENTS - 


10 















Dispose of camp food 
service problems with 

ROYAL 

disposable plates and bowls 

Strong, attractive Royal CHINET food service products help you ... 

• DISPOSE OF DISHWASHING COSTS 

Cut the expense of installing, maintaining and manning equipment 
that is used only a few months of the year. 

• DISPOSE OF BREAKAGE 

Save yourself the trouble and expense of buying matching replace¬ 
ments for pieces that crack, chip and shatter. 

• DISPOSE OF FOOD WASTE 

You get exact portion control with Royal CHINET’s wide range of 
sizes in regular and compartmented designs. 

• DISPOSE OF GERM COLLECTORS 

Royal CHINET products are sterilized when manufactured and 
packaged. And there's never a germ-collecting chip, crack or 
poorly washed dish. 

• DISPOSE OF IRRITATING NOISE 

Disposable service is silent service. Meals are relaxed without the 
clatter and crash of china or metal. 

ENVIRONMENTAL ADVANTAGES, TOO 

All good campers want to protect the environment. Royal CHINET prod¬ 
ucts are manufactured from a renewable resource. What’s more, they’re 
biodegradable ... molded of natural wood fibres that burn readily with 
little smoke. Even if discarded out-of-doors, Royal CHINET quickly de¬ 
composes in the earth. 

Get the full particulars now. Mail this coupon today.- 


CANADIAN KEYES FIBRE COMPANY LTD 
HANTSPORT, NOVA SCOTIA 

Please provide me with details of the variety and costs of Royal 
CHINET food service products. 

NAME___ 

COMPANY or CAMP - 

ADDRESS _ \ A 


11 







NO TR AC £ CAMPING 


continued from page 7) 


some technique. First of all the fire must be built safely. Fire built directly 
on the forest floor is absolutely forbidden under any circumstances. A patch of 
mineral dirt or rock must be found. If the forest floor is thin, it may be tempo¬ 
rarily removed to expose the mineral dirt beneath and saved for replacement when you 
leave. Every locality presents a different problem, but essentially you must recog¬ 
nize burnable ground and keep this material away from your fire. A fire that leaves 
no trace must be kept small. This makes it easy to gather wood without leaving a 
trace. Any wood small enough to break with your hands will be suitable and you 
should only gather what you need. You may not realize that charcoal is is pure 
carbon and will last forever, wood ashes on the other hand will disolve in the 
soil with the next rain. So during the last few minutes of your fire, don't add 
any wood, but keep scraping all the embers together so they will burn themselves out. 
Wet the ashes and spread them, replace rocks and spread leftover firewood, the area 
can be smoothed over with your feet and a dead branch to blend in with the surround¬ 
ings. Time and nature will do the rest. 

It is important for the wilderness traveller to be sure his wastes leave no trace. 
This can be done very simply: 

- Select a suitable spot 50' from water. 

- Dig a hole 8" X 10" diameter, not more than 6" to 8" deep, to stay within the 
biological disposer layer of soil. 

- The hole may be filled with loose soil and the sod tramped back into place. 

- Nature will do the rest in a few days. 

Now we must begin our campaign. We can begin by picking up the remains left by 
others. We can also ask those we meet on the way in, if they have any garbage we 
can carry out. This is a subtle hint, surely all those who truely love the wilder¬ 
ness will want to protect it. They may just need reminders. 

The time has come. Let us change our camping ways from those of the pioneers to 
those of the wilderness traveller and leave no trace. 


6IIC-800 NSSI 


ize wsw oihvino oiNoaoi 

OVOti 3DN3AV 9081 Z BlIOS 

opoiWJ np sdwD.y sap uoijoposso 
uojwpossD Suiduwa uoipouno 



