
Canadian 


campma 




h,: ~ »1W C.> 




"I like autumn best of all, because its leaves are a little yellow, its tones 
mellower, its colours richer, and it is tinged a little with sorrow. Its golden 
richness speaks not of the innocence of spring, nor of the power of summer, but 
of the mellowness and kindly wisdom of approaching age. It knows the limitations 
of life and is content." 

Lin Yutang 



OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE CANADIAN CAMPING ASSOCIATION 
L’ASSOCIATION DES CAMPS DU CANADA — PUBLICATION OFFICIELLE 


SUITE 2, 1806 AVENUE ROAD 
TELEPHONE (416) 781-4717 


• TORONTO. ONTARIO M5M 3Z1 


Vol. 31 No. 5 
October 1979 


1 




















The COUNSELLOR'S Page 


For most of us the camping season has 
ended for another year. Our campers 
have now returned to their homes and 
the camp rests awaiting another summer. 
The many good memories will burn more 
brightly in our minds as we look back 
on the weeks we spent in the bush. We 
are not the only ones recalling the fun 
and friends of the past summer. Our 
campers will recall many times during 
the year how we tried to help them learn 
to live with others as well as become 
more skilled and better able to enjoy 
living in the bush. ¥e can continue to 
contribute to their good memories by 
keeping in touch. Here are some ideas 
which you might try. 


which you could have copies. 

Make up a cabin NEW YEARS CARD which 

you could send to campers and staff from other cabins. 

Have your campers send you a poem, picture or news item about themselves and put 
out a CABIN NEWSLETTER this spring. 

Make up a CAMP SONG using the tune from a popular camp song. Each camper could 
send one verse to you and then you could return a copy of the completed song to 
each of them. Follow this up by singing it to the new camp when it assembles 
next spring. 

PERSONAL LETTERS are always welcome and to get a letter from ones counsellor 
would be especially so. What a great feeling would be generated from the know¬ 
ledge that "My counsellor thinks about me even though the summer has passed." A 
word of encouragement about school or a skill that was being developed during 
camp are obvious topics to mention. Others which relate to personal memories 
between you and an individual camper would be welcome too. 


If you have the time to keep in touch it could mean a lot to your campers and the 
good feeling you would get from the attempt is not to be discounted either. It's 
a very inexpensive investment with the potential of a very high yield. 


"Never tell people HOW to do things 
you with their ingenuity." 


Tell them WHAT to do and they will surprise 

G.S. Patton 


2 







ACID RAIN 








The following article is from "The Probe Post" regarding a topic which should in¬ 
terest every citizen, particularly those of us who are concerned with children 
living near "living lakes". 

EXPLANATION : pH 

The pH scale is used to measure the acidity of alkalinity of any solution. The 
scale ranges from 0 to 14. A solution with a pH of 7 is neutral. A pH less than 
7 indicates acidity. The lower the pH, the greater the acidity. 

Each unit on the scale represents a 10 fold increase or decrease. For example a 
solution with a pH of 4 is ten times as acidic as a solution with a pH of 5. 

THE VICTIMS PAY 

Many of Ontario’s most important recreational lakes are becoming increasingly 
acidic and decreasingly able to support life. 

Of 209 lakes tested in the Sudbury area, 20 percent are "dead" and another 50 per¬ 
cent are threatened. In the Muskoka-Haliburton area, many lakes are expected to 
succumb to acidification in the forseeable future. 

The problem is ACID RAIN — a product of industrial pollution. 

Normal precipitaiton is slightly acidic because atmospheric carbon dioxide com¬ 
bined with moisture produces a weak carbonic acid. Hncontaminated rain has a 
pH of about 5.6. 

But the acidity of rain is very much greater where the atmosphere is contaminated 
by sulphur and nitrogen oxides. Sulphur oxides, the major contributors to acid 
rain, are emitted from primary and secondary metal smelters and from facilities 
burning fossil fuels (in particular, coal burning thermal electric stations). 

Nitrogen oxides are also produced during high temperature combustion of fossil 
fuels. 

These oxides react chemically with water and oxygen in the air to form acids. 
Downwind from the industrial centres emitting large quantities of sulphur and 
nitrogen oxides, the pH of rainfall has been hundreds of times more acidic than 
normal rainfall. 

According to recent studies by the Ontario Ministry of the Environment, the mean 
pH of precipitation in south-central Ontario is between 3.95 and 4.38. One snow¬ 
fall had a measured pH of 2.97 — over 400 times the acidity of normal precipita¬ 
tion. 

KILLING THE LAKES 

Lake areas such as Muskoka-Haliburton, where the Precambrian bedrock and often 
thin overburden is not very soluable, have little ability to neutralize the acid 
(low buffering capacity). Subjected to continued acid precipitation, the waters 
gradually become too acidic to support life. 

When the pH of lakes and streams declines below 5.0, fishermen must look elsewhere. 

Important sport fish, especially salmon, trout and smallmouth bass, are particu¬ 
larly susceptible to reproductive problems due to increased water acidity. The 
problem is worsened by the coincidence of spawning and hatching periods with the 

(cont. on page 9 ) 



CANOE TRIPPING IN THE 1WENTIE1H CENTURY 


Every person shall strive to protect and enhance 
the beautiful, everywhere his or her environmental 
impact is felt. 

The above statement is a portion of an " environmental ethic" issued by an 
advisory council of the Ministry of the Environment. The "beautiful" refers not 
just to things which the eye of the beholder perceives as beautiful. Anything 
which is functional and contributes to the maintenance of a stable ecosystem is 
beautiful. The definition of beautiful includes: soil aerated by earthworms 
and insects so that wild flowers may grow; algae and waterplants which are depen¬ 
dent on pure fresh water and which feed the mighty moose; large amounts of dead- 
wood decomposing on the ground. 

The irony of canoe tripping is that it has the potential of destroying 
the very environment the tripper seeks out to enjoy. The solitude and beauty of 



many wilderness areas, notably our 
large provincial parks, are being 
destroyed by large numbers of re¬ 
creational users, only a tiny min¬ 
ority of whom are wilfully destruc 
tive. It is unlikely that the num 
ber of users will decline voluntar 
ily, therefore the answer must lie 
in lessening their impact. There 
are two ways the thoughtless or un- 
aware can have high impact. The 

















first is through over use of an area's resources. Frequent use of a campsite or 
wilderness area leads to depletion of natural wood supply, compaction of the 
earth and destruction of the understory. Nature is by no means capable of 
dealing with the intensity of use to which we subject some of her areas. The 
second way is through our dealings with waste. Now every living thing produces 
waste and all waste breaks down eventually. The problem lies in how much we 
waste, in what we do with our waste until it is recyclable, and in how we aid 
in its reabsorption into the cycle of things. There are several ways we 
minimize the impact of dealing with waste and other resource use. 


Here are some ideas to consider in order to meet this goal for canning in 
the 21st century: 

1. Carry out everything you carry in (and a little of what others have left). 

2. Consider the use of small camping stoves, some of the time. (It may be 
all of the time in the future.) Consider a metal fire container. 

3• If you build a fire ...consider 

(a) keeping it small 

(b) letting it burn to ash, leaving no charcoal 

(c) distributing unused wood near the campsite in an inconspicuous 
manner 

(d) removing all garbage from the ashes (e.g. foil) 

(e) making sure fire is out using water (e.g. stir, resoak) 

(f) if you find several fire pits at your site, clean up the best 
one or two and eliminate the others 

4« Consider gathering firewood by canoe at a point distant from your camp¬ 
site even if wood is available on the site. 

5. Do not blight the campsite for your own comfort (e.g. trenches, bough 
beds, tables, natural shelters, garbage pits^. 

6. Consider lessening the polution impact of soap by 

(a) rinsing dishes only and using no soap 

(b) using a biodegradable soap sparingly (e.g. Coghlan's) 

(c) dumping dish water a reasonable distance from the water's edgej 
do not rinse or wash dishes at the water's edge. 

7. Consider lessening the polution impact of human waste 

(a) Burning toilet tissue in your camp fire. 

(b) Using a trowel, uncover the top layer (3-4") of soil. After 
use replace the earth. 

8. Spread the word! 


A respect for the out-of-doors as well as for those who come after us can 
result in our protection, enhancement and enjoyment of the beautiful for all 


time. 


by Karl Hartwick 
John Jorgenson 
Jim Gear 


5 



PUBLICATIONS 


Beginning immediately, all books 
published by the American Camping Asso¬ 
ciation will be available to Canadians 
through the Canadian Camping Associa¬ 
tion's Publication Service. These 
books include: the popular Acclima¬ 
tization series by Steve Van Matre, Ba¬ 
sic River Canoeing. A Counselor's Guide 
to Camp Singing , Basic Camp Managment (a 
new book by Armand and Beverly Ball, re¬ 
viewed elsewhere on this page), Eco- 
Sketch and many, many others. 

Thanks to the generosity of the 
American Camping Association, we are, 
for the time being at least, able to 
offer these books to Canadians at the 
price listed in the American Camping 
Association Catalogue payable in Cana¬ 
dian Funds I Service should be faster 
since the volume of orders is not as 
great and we will still pay postage 
(4th Class) on prepaid orders. 

We will continue to offer some, but 
by no means all, of the books included 
in the A.C.A. Catalogue that are pub¬ 
lished by large American Houses, but 
our prices for these books will depend 
on our sources of supply. We expect 
to publish a catalogue in the fall, but 
in the meantime can supply a price list 
of the titles we carry. 

Until the system becomes well known, 
the American Camping Association will 
forward all orders received by them 
from Canadians to us - obviously t hi s 
will slow things down a bit. If orders 
are submitted for both A.C.A. and com- 
mericially published books at the same 
time the order will be filled by A.C.A, 
so to take advantage of this new ser¬ 
vice, please divide your order accord¬ 
ingly. 

REMEMBER this applies ONLY to books 
PUBLISHED by A.C.A. 

Books are available through C.C.A. 

1806 Avenue Rd., Toronto, M5M 3Z1 


Basic Camp Management by Armand B. and 
Beverly H. Ball, A.C.A. 1979, pp. 145. 

Designed for the new and inexperienced 
camp director, this book may well be 
used as the basis for a college course 
in Camp Administration. Chapter topics 
include: staff recruitment and organi¬ 
zation; recruitment of campers; prepar¬ 
ation of the camper; site preparation; 
staff orientation; pre-camp training 
for staff; operation and supervision of 
program services; operation and super¬ 
vision of health and food service, fi¬ 
nances ; transportation and maintenance; 
evaluation and reporting; and the volun¬ 
teer structure. 

Price: #7.50 paperback 

Woodsmanship Leaders' Guide by Kirk A. 
Wipper, C.C.A., 1979, pp. 155. 

An outgrowth of and intended to be used 
as an instructor's aid at the very pop¬ 
ular C.C.A. Woodsmanship Schools, this 
manual comes in 3 ring loose-leaf form, 
to allow for easy up-dating. It in¬ 
cludes 3 major components: an explora¬ 
tion of the land ethic; a compendium of 
ideas on the theme of leadership; and 
finally, a set of practical materials 
on land pursuits. Some of the topics 
covered are: Trail Skills, Survival, 
Program Planning, Navigation, Food and 
Menu Planning, Human Waste Disposal, 
and Basic Ecology. There is an exten¬ 
sive bibliography. 

Price: $6.00 

New Books that we expect to be available 
this fall: 

The Co-operative Sports and Games Book, 
by Terry Orlick, Pantheon Books 

Sunship Earth , by Steve Van Matre, A.C.A. 

Senior Adult Camping , by Constance H. 
Armstong, A.C.A. 

Games, by Frank Harris, self published. 




A TRIBUTE 


'Last week we lost our chef who had been with us for seven years. No famous 
man whose death would make headlines, but a simple man who did so much for 
camping by making campers happy with what came from the kitchen. No 
executive post on the association, no articles written, just work at a hot 
stove for long hours. Contributions to camping vary and I would like to ask 
you to spare a thought for an unknown to you, Edgar Blais, and to stop for 
a moment and appreciate your own chefs. 


To our door he came, out of work, 

Dejected. 

Sent to camp's winter door 
By Manpower. 

Can you cook? Do you like children?" 

"Mais Oui." 

"Can you take long hours and little help?" 
"Mais Oui." 

And so he came, as all chefs to all camps, 


Have you a chef who loves your camp? 
To whom it is not a job? 

But a place where he is appreciated, 
Where campers cheer and sing? 

Have you a chef who takes the time 
To answer little ones? 

Have you a chef who is part of camp 
Whose presence would be missed? 

If you have, thank God for him. 


And so he worked, as good chefs in lucky camps, You think as director you're important. 
And so he worked wonders with simple food, Sure you are, but he's there too... 

Are you as lucky as we were? Right on top, same as you. 


Sure, we rolled him home now and then, 

As many a camp director does. 

But warmth and loyalty were his to hold.. 
"Je t'aime Madame." 


Edgar is gone, not by choice, 

He would leave a job for us, 

But a notice in a small town paper 
Was the final severence. 


est decede accidentellement M. Edgar Blais. 


Madelene Allen, Ouareau, 


TRAVELLING SEWING KIT 

handy for CAMPING,FISHING,OUTINGS, light and 
compact with scissors, needles, threads, buttons 
and safety pin. Only $2.65. 10% group discount. 
Send cheque or money order to 

Apollo Trading Co.,P.O.Box 61,Station A, 
Scarboro, Ont.,MlK 5B9 

Or phone 416-261-4326 



7 





National Convention 


Boston, Massachusetts — February 11-16,1980 


This year’s convention will feature 

Professional Development: 

Camping Research 

Camping for Special Populations 

Special Family Rates 

"Pops" Style Evening 

Tours during Boston’s 350th Anniversary 

REGISTRATION FEES : 

Pull Registration - $130 member, 

$150 nonmember, advanced. Spouces 
of members may register at one-half 
member's fee. Students may register 
daily at $7 member, $10 nonmember. 

SPECIAL ROOM RATES 

Economy Single - $38 (limited no.) 
Single $45 

Double $54 

The ACA 1980 Boston Convention will be 
more than a convention. It will be an 
opportunity for all the family to visit 
Boston, an opportunity enhanced by half 
rate registration for spouces of members 
and free registration for children. 


CLASSIFIED 
F OR RENT 

Property for rent — to clubs, community, 
religious, company or other groups for 
adult, children, or family camping; 75 
acres, 3 lakes, large wharf, diving 
board and tower, playing field, build¬ 
ings, electricity, central water system, 
former boys' camp; weekly, monthly or 
season: 70 miles from Montreal near 
LaChute, Quebec. (514) 697-6242 

Position Wanted 

Camp Director, 9 years experience, seeks 
senior position with opportunity for 
partnership or purchase. 


Write: 


J.D. Varey 
21 White Birch Road, 
Scarborough, Ont. MIN 3A7 


Hosted by: 


New England Section, American Camping Association 

Sheraton-Boston and Hynes Auditorium 


Left: The State House and Archives Museum. 
Above: Faneuil Hall. 


8 


















ACID RAIN 


(cont. from page 3 ) 


times of heaviest sudden acid loadings — during the early snow melts in spring 
and the first heavy autumn rains. 

In southern Norway, where acid rain has been an increasing problem since the turn 
of the century, trout have disappeared from hundreds of lakes, and salmon, once the 
base of a multi-million dollar industry, have been eliminated from major rivers. 

In the Adirondacks, an important recreational area of New York State, more than 
half of the highland lakes are now highly acidic; of these, 90 percent no longer 
support fish populations. 

The Ontario Ministry of Environment reports that the acidity of precipitation in 
the Muskoka-Haliburton region is now as bad or worse than that in Scandinavia and 
the Northeastern U.S. 

Increased lake and stream acidity is not the only worrisome product of acidic pre¬ 
cipitation. Even where water acidity has not yet increased to the point where 
fish reproduction and survival is prevented, acid rain apparently acts to increase 
the levels of heavy metals contained in solution in lake waters and entering the 
food chains. In particular, there seems to be a connection between relatively 
small rises in lake acidity and significant increases in mercury levels in fish. 
Thus, even where acid rain does not leave lakes devoid of life, it may lead to 
heavy metal contamination of fish, making them dangerous for humans and other ani¬ 
mals to eat. 

If allowed to continue, acid rain will poison most lakes in susceptible area like 
Muskoka-Haliburton and eventually leave them lifeless. For many lakes this even¬ 
tuality should probalbly be measured in years rather than decades. 

NO BAND-AID SOLUTIONS 

There are no adequate band-aid solutions to the acid rain problem. Lime can be 
added to lakes to neutralize acidity, but liming is expensive. New York State 
officials found it cost $25 per acre of affected water in the Adirondacks, and 
applications have to be repeated every three or four years. 

According to Cal Parker, chief of the New York State Bureau of Fisheries, "Liming 
is just a cosmetic treatment. Control of the sources of airborne pollutants is 
the ultimate answer." 

This ultimate answer is not an easy one. Industrial emissions of sulphur and ni¬ 
trogen oxides are often carried hundreds of miles by winds. Most of the pollutants 
that lead to acid rain in Norway are emitted from industrial faciltites in Britain 
and Western Europe . 

Similarly, the Muskoka-Haliburton area suffers from pollutants emitted from coal- 
fired generating stations in the U.S. Midwest and southern Ontario and from the 
smelting complex in Sudbury. The pollutants responsible from acid rain in the 
Adirondacks also come from both Canadian and U.S. sources. 

Prevention of acid rain will require international cooperation. Action will have 
to control the pollutants causing damage in other jurisdictions, perhaps hundreds 
of miles away. 

Similar cooperation has not been totally absent in modern history, but it has not 
been common, or easily achieved. Leadership is necessary and, in -this case, the 
leader should, perhaps must, be the Province of Ontario despite its currently de¬ 
plorable record. 

(cont. on page 10 ) 



ACID RAIN 


(cont. from page 9 ) 


AN INTERNATIONAL RESPONSIBILITY 

Ontario is both a victim and a source of acid rain causing pollutants. Pollutants 
from the U.S. Midwest are a major cause of acid rain in the province, but Ontario 
itself emits large quantities of acids that cause acid rains in the province and 
in Quebec, Eastern Canada and Northeastern U.S. 

Action by Ontario to reduce dramatically the amount of sulphur dioxide emitted 
would lead to a reduction of acid rain problems in the provinces and downwind 
jurisdictions. It would also provide and example for those responsible for pol¬ 
lution control in jurisdictions upwind from the province. 

Ontario is now in no position to complain about pollutants from the U.S. Midwest. 
The Sudbury smelting complex emits more sulphur dioxide than any other single 
source in North America. Inco's 1250 foot super—stack emits an average of 3600 
tons of sulphur dioxide daily! 

A control order issued by the province in 1970 required Inco to reduce its sulphur 
dioxide emissons to 750 tons per day by December 31, 1979. But in July, six 
months before the deadline, the province retreated and issued a revised control 
order, allowing the company to continue emitting sulphur dioxide at the current 
rate, 

Inco and the province claim that installation of the equipment needed to reduce 
emissions to 750 tons per day would be prohibitively expensive. They point to a 
federal Department of Energy, Mines and Resources study, based on Inco figures, 
which concluded that reduction to 2200 tons per day would cost $200 million, to 
1600 tons per day $500 million and to 750 tons per day $1 billion. 

But Inco and provincial officials fail to mention a 1974 report, prepared by the 
federal Department of the Environment, which calculated "A damage cost of approxi¬ 
mately $465,850,000 caused by S0^_ (sulphur oxides) emissions to human health, vege¬ 
tation, materials and property value, in the Sudbury area, it probably represents 
a conservative estimate of the present annual cost of damage from Sudbury’s emis¬ 
sions . 

The question, evidently, is not whether or not the costs are prohibitive, but who 
shall pay them. The costs of allowing emissions from the Sudbury complex to con¬ 
tinue at current levels for a very few years equal the costs of installing and 
maintaining equipment. One or the other set of costs must be paid. 

Currently the costs of air pollution from Sudbury are borne by a multitude of 
largely innocent victims. This is unjust and, in the longer term, more costly 
than prevention. 

Ontario would gain much by reinstating the requirments of the original Inco con¬ 
trol order. The high initial costs of installing abatement equipment would be 
quickly compensated by reduced damages within the province and further downwind. 

And the province would be in a position to press for pollution reduction in up¬ 
wind jurisdictions. 

Unless this step is taken, there is very little chance that the acid rain prob¬ 
lem will be addressed and very little pssibility that there will be life in the 
Muskoka—Haliburton Lakes at the turn of the next century. 

"THE PROBE POST" is a publication on current environmental issues available from 
Probe, 43 Queen's Park Crescent E. Toronto, Ontario M5S 2C3. 


10 



Dispose of camp food 

service problems with 

royal Chinet 

disposable plates and bowls 

Strong, attractive Royal CHINET food service products help you ... 

• DISPOSE OF DISHWASHING COSTS 

Cut the expense of installing, maintaining and manning equipment 
that is used only a few months of the year. 

• DISPOSE OF BREAKAGE 

Save yourself the trouble and expense of buying matching replace¬ 
ments for pieces that crack, chip and shatter. 

• DISPOSE OF FOOD WASTE 

You get exact portion control with Royal CHINET’s wide range of 
sizes in regular and compartmented designs. 

• DISPOSE OF GERM COLLECTORS 

Royal CHINET products are sterilized when manufactured and 
packaged. And there’s never a germ-collecting chip, crack or 
poorly washed dish. 

• DISPOSE OF IRRITATING NOISE 

Disposable service is silent service. Meals are relaxed without the 
clatter and crash of china or metal. 

ENVIRONMENTAL ADVANTAGES, TOO 

All good campers want to protect the environment. Royal CHINET prod¬ 
ucts are manufactured from a renewable resource. What’s more, they’re 
biodegradable ... molded of natural wood fibres that burn readily with 
little smoke. Even if discarded out-of-doors, Royal CHINET quickly de¬ 
composes in the earth. 

Get the full particulars now. Mail this coupon today. 

CANADIAN KEYES FIBRE COMPANY LTD. 
HANTSPORT, NOVA SCOTIA 

Please provide me with details of the variety and costs of Royal 
CHINET food service products. 



COMPANY or CAMP 
ADDRESS 






- COMING EVENTS - 



-1979 - 


Canadian Camping Association 

Fall Board Meeting - Saskatoon 

Nov. 1 & 2, 

Saskatchewan Camping Association 

Fall Conference " 

Nov. 2 & 3, 

Outdoor Sport Skills Institute 

Camp Tawingo - Huntsville 

Nov. 8-13, 

(Woodsmanship Leaders' School) 



Ontario Camping Association 

Director's Weekend - Bolton 

Nov. 9-11, 


-1980- 


Alberta Camping Association 

Conference 

Jan. 24 - 27, 

Canadian Camping Association 

Executive Meeting - Vancouver 

Jan. 24 & 25, 

British Columbia Camping Assn. 

Conference 

Jan. 24 - 27, 

American Camping Association 

1980 Convention - Boston 

Feb. 11 - 16, 

Canadian Camping Association 

Executive Meeting - Halifax 

Feb. 17 

Ontario Camping Association 

Annual Conference - Toronto 

Mar. 6 - 8, 

Saskatchewan Camping Association 

Spring Conference - Meunster 

Apr. 25 - 27, 

Canadian Camping Association 

Annual Meeting - P. Q. 

May 


on o<n 

nuo 

•sjoooqBg *p •» *b.?k V *JH 

(dtuuo *sa) vovctihcih ditvo 


6TT£“800 NSSI 



dlf IIVO C009 r 
V JO J;^ 
N9IS 3H1 


IZC WSW OIUV1NO 'OINOdOl 
aV0d 3DN3AV 9081 '2 31inS 

vpvuD.i np sdiuDJ sap uotjonossn 
uoiwpossD Sutdwm imipnuoD 







