Teo Mine ees 
Lenten 


a ese an 
\ ee) epee pee 
. a ¢ ac \\\ poo is /| ai 
a ev | A EF fi 2.35 oe 

4 \y 7 oo / Lf eee 


Re 


ee A 


Saturday, Juiy 83, 195 


Kamp Kanowane 
fee 


BEST FANCY DRESS BALL 


All the old rags, balloons, and erepe paper in the camp were prought to light 
on Thursday night, when the most colorful masquerade in Kanawana history wes held. 
Tho “ball was held in the dining pavillion which wes gaily decked out in flags, 
balbons, and streamers for the occasions 

The main event of the show was a surprise to everyone....THE DOCTOR AND CLARK 
MERRITT BOTH DANCED! Doc Cooper, in blackfece makeup, did a tapdance which was 
greatly appreciated, and Clerk Merritt did one of his famous eccentric dances. 

The chief taught a number of campers how to bern-dance, 
L while the rest looked on. Punch and punches were distributed, 
end the ¢andy store was put in the dining hall, where the 
Sy cempers gorged themselves. 
ee ee | i procession was formed of 211 the costume-bedecked individ~ 
\ _7.7 )yuals, and the judges worked frentically trying to decide on 


Beare 
% ca ~ the trimmers. Finelly they made these decisions: 


> \) Most originel:- The prison chein gang, composed of Greham 
ID > Ireland, Bill Tetley, Ian Smith, end Garth 
gS \ (OF Clendenning. Also Ed Bleck & John Houseman. 
3 Most comicel:- Norm Wellace masquerading (2?) os a Scotsmen. 
Best pair:- Arthur Latter and Ted Ralph as the man in the iron mask and consort. 
Best National costume:- Benny Leshley as an East Indian. 
Other costumes of interest were Brock Brace as a Mendarin, Jerry Wrenshall 


as a minister, chief Macdiarmid as a highlander, Joe Saltibus as an African, and 
Don Henley as a pirate. 


OW THE AIR 


FLASH? -----<- Good morning, sport fans from coast to coast. This is Bill Windy 
priuging to you the details in the biggest sporting event of tne week: Bill 
Tones, the average Kanawane camper is cbout to wake up....wWe hopes Yes, there 
goes the rising bell now, folks, end Ima Brute, the section director is ovt on 
sho baleony of the Mount Rits shouting "EVERYEODY UP!!" Nobody seems to hear 
hin... not even Bill Tones, weo is in a deep slumber. It's a tough fight, 
foiks, but the camp is beginning to stir nov 


: ‘ee yes there ere cotually signs of 
life. We pause here, folics, to tell you thet © 


his broedsast is mede possible 
* the fenous "BROCK" braces..."vhe 


(continued on page 3) 


> WSTHVE" connin' compary, makers.or 
2 let vou down." 


ee 


een 
ee ee 


aoe fie 


Sot ee ees i 


Saale (6 


TIM KEY WINS CONTEST 


— 


Last week's brain teasing contest was won by Jim Kennedy of Juvenile Section. 
His solution was in Saturday night. Last week it was a senior...«.-Come on you 
Juniors. oe 

The correct solution to the contest is "WE SINCERELY HOPE THAT ALL CAMPERS 
WILL SUSSCRIBE TO THIS PAPER". ; 

See what you can do with this week's contest! 


‘te dh chdh ( ant dhdhdb dh ad a, dh dh Past Hy dhch dh ch ch da db dd ataled dh dds dy dh JL Ane oy Ah 2h 25 LSD nada ds drdhdd AA AS Hd bb 2A oh chdle db 
SESSA 2 SPD aDS ares gt A BaD aN HEAP ISBN TTT ION ee RSI LOL tt] 


He ayy 
Pe aa 
’  Unseramble the letters in the following words, and re-arrange these to Oo 
#5 form a logical sentence: oo 
oe Oo 
ve DAISREE FO EHT SRTERO HRIET VELAE SI VRFTAEIOU ON RIMSAO LAL ee 
oe? sy 
*s Hand in your solutions to Morrey Cross, Tent 3 Juvenile. — Oe 
An Good luck. OO 
é  snother thrilling contest in next week's issue. : : at) 


PhAAR aw AL ered Boots Heth dh ch *heb Merde ddd ahah dhchdhdh Web heh eeAS doch Ab eb cheb Add dhe’ ah AW Awaba MAb Aas Ach oth db dls PME M ded’ ch dh dhe BALES ANAL AL ebdh teh 
qesese de WWE WHE IEW WE SENT yet eee SPIE SESE GENE SEEN SH SORE We WEIS WNC TE WE ese ENE SW WEE PNP SPT HEHE NAGE NCTE We Ne IE sere ese ee 


NEW TYPE PROGRAM INAUGURATED 
A new type of program was inaugurated last week, in which Monday and 
Thursday were set apart for projects alone, and Tuesday and Friday were set 
apart for waterfront program. Wednesday, as usual, was reserved for hikes. 
Working all dsy on the projects stimulated a lot of renewed interest, and 
many capers yassed vests on the waterfront days, so the vrogram Was highly 
successiul. 


Brock Brace Piays in Musicale. 


The guest ertist last Sundey eronirg oto Samny S.8SHLey* S regular plano 
15 3 


recital was Brock Brace, Jin-z4ile Parscsor, eo rEisy 2hu ComMpuses s Wir. Brace 
played one of his moter’ s as Webs fs. one Oo! hiwioniee oo both Vere very 
much: appreciatec by tho emai eub 2veanvero 4 {Sivas pr ber teow oc o wee 
Peyieneds Mr. Lesnley, who by dhe iss “4S BBeLS Tess CEPSEISS. Gv Chriss Church 
° sival, took over the piacy, ene 5ie7 ad, Bose Te ‘1eserners' requests, 
af chieh vere tocen feo. Liens wocre:: ‘ 2 = 
~ v 
. Bate Tee 


: (s) 


ON THE AIR-(continued from page 1) 


Try BROCK braces tomorrow....eNow, on with the show, ladies and gentlemen. Bill's 
leader, Dox Wims, is now pulling Bill out of bed by the ear, and Bill doesn't 

seem to enjoy the procedure. Dox finelly gives up and Mr. Brute walks up to the 
tent....he is hauling Bill down to the wharf.....he is washing behind his ears 
now, and Bill is actually looking clean....Yes folks, it's an amazing spectacle 

to see this megnificent specimen of shining boyhood. I wish you all were here 

to see him. But our time’s up now...and so until next week...remember that a 
stitch in time is worth two rolling stones....or something. So long, folks, 

this is Bill Windy signing OFLPecvccsccsvvcsccces 


fluny ,i cs | 


IE es a a eR SES MI ny 
\ mF pe SOs . by Directors. 


There was a young fellow named Wallace, "It's a confounded nuisance,” said chief, 
Who found at Leke Becsies his solace. "That I cannot get any relief; 


With Merritt he'd go For my broken down car, 
At midnight or SO«eee. When I om efar, 
If we tell any more, they might meul us. It always is giving me grief." 
Our key-pounding expert is Shrivell; The hog-calling champion nemed Smith 
He sits on a chair with a swivel. Bach morn wakes the Juveniles with 
On Sunday hets busy:-- A foghorn-like vdice, 
Her name isn't Lizzy, And language so choice, 
But he keeps a demeanour quite civil. That his name will remain as a myth. 
iA 
ADVICE TO THE LOVELORN by Dorothy Mix. 


Dearest Do: > 

Our cemp doctor is dividing his time between Kenawana and the Junior League. 
It worries me, end I want to know if something can be done about it. 

"Chief." 

Dear Chiefie: 

I get whet you mean, although competition is good for the soul....But you 
ean always get rid of the doctor. If this doesn't work, I am still availeble. 

‘ Goodbye you great big chief, 
F Do-do Mix. 


HRI 


Our beautiful outdoor chapel .is now adorned by e choir, organized by Benny s\ 
Leshley to lead the singing. The choir is still in need of new members. % 3" 


HAT 


SMACK! 
The most touching exhibition of personal affection took plece in the dining 
hall the other day, when Walter Harris kissed Doug Gregory. It seems thet 
Mr. Harris told the Chief thet he could have kissed Doug, when Doug found some 
ereo> prver for him, ord tho chief incisto* “"..t fe do so publiciy. ee 


