KA-NEWS_ '80 


May 1980 


Here it Is 1980's version of news and Information. | know It's a little 
late for St. Patrick's Day and Easter but here's hoping all was merry and 


happy. 


Things are really cooking in the office with interviews and contracts, 
people to meet and people to see and tons to do. K.K. "80 is around the 
corner and as Julian and Olga keep reminding me summer is also around 
the corner so if you haven't contacted me about this year | think It's 
time. 


As most already know, Nancy Sawyer is the Assistant Director and she is 
readying pre-kamp and the K.K. Reunion at the moment as well as inter- 
viewing potential staff. By the way, just to give everyone an idea of 
what's happening this year. It's our hope to get the tripping staff out 
on at least a 3 day trip together. Jullan and Yves have spent a lot of 
time sanding and painting canoes. So we'll have a full fleet In the H20 
thls year. The Hebertism course hopefully will be put back into use with 
various new Ideas for it. Chris Adams is going to help set up a nature 
awareness program and visit on days off from his Technology courses at 
Vanier. We have learnt of new ways of presenting orienteering and 
complimenting them with a nature trail,developing this activity could be 
quite a challenge. These are some of the things planned for this year, 
if you have any suggestions give Nancy or | a cail. 


First-aid 


The Quebec Camping Assoclation is offering a standard first-ald course 
(St. John Ambulance) adapted for summer camps June 7 and 8 at St. Jean 
House. You must register before May 15, 1980. Remember a valid First- 
ald certificate Is compulsory for camp. The cost is $15.00. 


Nancy's J.G. 


Kevin Forster has become a maritimer. He Is now Director of Camp 
Glenburn In St. John, N.B. Good Luck Kev and Happy Kamping. Daves 
Bennet and Scammells will be heading to K.K. for pre-season work with 
Julian and they're looking for some good bug repellent. Sue and Jeff 
have announced that they'I! be tying the knot In July and they've moved 
to Toronto - address at the bottom. Johanna Is becoming an Innuit for 
the summer, counting fish and maping harvest areas. Bob Woodhouse hopes 
to become a Voyageur but he hasn't figured out how to get 5 brokerage 
lines Into a canoe and keep his fulltime job. 


KA-NEWS '80 Z 


Nancy's J.G. Cont'd 


Doug Peets has taken out shares with Coke and Humpty Dumpty. Rosemary 
has decided to become a Rover for Senior Boys and has been taking courses 
In Correctional Behavior. 


My Thought for the Day 


lf Dave O'Donnel! is a Master Canoelst does that make Steve Wells a 
Master Boater. 


Dave O'Donnel! and Lynn Pryer announced their engagement over the New 
Year. Congratulations! 


Dave's Christmas party has finally arrived!! We would ltke to hold a 
staff get-together on SATURDAY, MAY 24, at K.K. and the Win Sum Inn. 


Schedule: Afternoon - Outdoor games at K.K. 


Dinner - at Win Sum Inn 
Menue 


Roast chicken 

Home fried potatoes 
Salad 

Bread 

Dessert 

Coffee 


Cost: $5,00 


Deposit: $2.50 per person 

This must be sent by each person directly to 
Win Sum Inn, St. Sauveur des Monts JOR 1RO 
by May 14. 


Those who wish can stay at the Win Sum for $6.00 per nite based on 
double occupancy or $7.50 bed and breakfast (based on double occupancy) 
RSVP 1-227-2624. 


Nitty Gritty Details: How do we get up? 


|. By arranging your own ride. 

2. By taking the Voyageur bus and being picked 
up In St. Sauveur by the van. We will meet 
+he bus which leaves Montreal at 1:00 PM and 
arrives In St. Sauveur at 2:20 PM. 


K A-NEWS '80 3 
New Addresses: 


Dave O'Donnel! and Lynn Pryer 
#3 

309 King Street, West 

Hami tton, Ontarto 


Sue Armstrong and Jeff Surette 
#18 

80 Castlefield 

Toronto M4R 164 


Kev Forster 

c/o YMCA 

19-25 Hazen Avenue 
Saint John, N.B. 
E2L 366 


Kitti Luce 

470 Bayshore Drive 
Neoean, Ontario 
K2B 768 


sa Crocker 
Cricklewood Cres. 
rnhill, Ontario 
4T8 


ud 

57 
_ 
in 


L3 


oO 
ae 
| 


fob Woodhouse 

#705 

4488 St. Catherine St. W. 
Montreal 


Help Wanted: 

We're still looking for an Assistant Nurse ~ any suggestions? 

Also, B.O. Manager, Trippers, Hike & Trip Director, Auxillary Waterfront, 
Male Counsellors, call 849-5331 extension 739 or 743. 


See you on the 24th, 


Dave 


