THE GREE 


Auguet S7th-.10Gi-« 


Pa tah M 4 l 
pi , eet ate 
: i 1 il 1 115 
111 1 poets Pat 
23 10 if TH 43 e 
F alin Wanliii 
% E conta 
ii i e att Hanes 
1% HEP Gee fanaa! 111 ar 
11 % 1 1 1 i 
244% sant He aes 117 
e HEHE ii 17 
a: cade 1 
bi 1 u n n 
1 3855 % * oil 155 


A. 


ed 


2 Se 


ER WO: 


93 


i 


115 
il 


152 
iat 


by ial sorrospoudeat, en te 
Folie lag exelusive statemen fhe Show rd fiom the 
deorais at tenda de and in «Ll probability the ies of aimicuioa 
will be raised in the future from one 
inceasot attancence wea refie t d in a rather uncathusiastic 4 
N t ren ble. 
vea short bat vivac E. wich foadowed / 
by the inovation of ‘he aew Marois ¥ Hanry be 


: the high spot of the evening was u tanbling exh Sbition . 
Bam nd its — Mo ie and Bob Wrighte 

fhe Green ¢ tehn presented the next issue, bat bat Jack Hilier 

absent, ü vas acvessary to inflict Doug. Laake votes on the 


Then vieing with the tumblers cane eame Ma“aaghtea, ComtoafiDencis in an 
extra Mlarious drama " Generals dei bed". This kit uncer the able 
Gireotion cf Hike Nelaucnton, was one of the most outstanding of the year. 


Feldman and of the Juniors gave a few rowilds of Box 
This as gu pose to be i Biask boxing, vat ite of the fas 
that . oa an hour try te R 
Zeves. n N ο blask sould not eome off e.0ves unte | 
1 Lee gave the beat reslere piano aole of the zear. 
tg gure the even with the lagt of a series of Grande 
r oK as & viotia in the nnr The vlad 
made another mu vain at te guiture to Aauawann in 
the presentat ian if the Sandal song trom the Of Seville After 


GCouycrIL RING | , 


ed W „ 


The usual hund Night Council ring was hela, Onse again the ; 
Chiefs and Little Ohiefe e Er vos agsen:led in the eounedl 7 


She Virelignser Saost) Duegens eneviet out Ris Sak? © of the ecresony 8 
with the ugual okille was then ken aud the report was a good. 
on Marced only the 23 © € three raves and Two Chiefs we:e Intes 1 

f 7 


Un Rieherde@onm, ai 2 17 late talkea hie way ia to the coundile 
After all mad assembled ouserocus reports ve e given ef €ifforeat 


> : = n „ 
—B ol : ’ 


} 
n the Shall enges mich were not quite eo sumerous,@hec 

8 was the Gialienge Taue by Lin to Ris Little Chiefs, 

to have a dip every morning within five alnutes of the riging belie 

It was not long before this ehallenge spread and soon ineluded the 5 

Junior leaders ant the majority of tie dunior taff. Arter the — 

the all was civen out, tnen u % council was lee d with the braves 

ehantin; the Omaha T2Bhal Prayer. 


Dram BIGHT PARADE 


‘ast tues@ay evening sarked a creat event in our ali eam program, 
the * ee 
he doys dressed up in various sostunes,ranging from pyjamas to 
leaveb.the parade wis beaded ty Mandaaster Volglaver and hie one man 


The parade left the Junior eaapus early 1d the evening and headed ) 
toware DeckineokseAfter a couple of stops we finally arrived ad our a 
ee ee ee — i oe vubeA return te ang the | 


2222 ares — Sak test ‘costume as cat. KIA. 


S T0 A2 SECTION 


Sue Seas aime the elan Chowdexsand and ee ee vd 
for in Junlar ang. ch foemer where 4 ning as 
dane ba in the woe x and a iaerosve game la 2 

Soke introduced this week when the 3 Dried ae cance — 
— * — 1 interesting competition aad was won by Howard Colveck — 

omge Ro * 


„„ 
r 
@ hike and this ieft Senior camp rather short for most zanas. 


The Boat Carnival 
One of the feature events of the Pas 


Although there were only about a dosen boate in 
very successful and certaifly showed the i 


i 
. 
i 
: 


III Junior sections . Sailors by Dent 71 Sealer Sec i 
The earnival was fol by & @ e Gnd a treat, eonsiaiing e 


Athlet le acct was held on and won by rosa 
with 19 pointee Throughout the wek the sure 1168 eG games und 
89 „ Lacrosse and Base- all. 


Prec urress. 


4) N * 


Lake Lachigan senior Hike. 


for the 4orme; seven adventurers salleid 
unknown lands before theme Yostaaa's duty performed, Lake Guinden with 
it's ohh, was pas od stryding tely to a song bat not with 


the rockey and sand slipping trail passed the Alpine Jhawbridgegites 


to the ely store, and a good Giaser at twelfe thirty. VGonsaming tae 
e an icesreamsoda or three shocvlate bare a pieee Li was 

seovered that it prodused nie fat salz sausages, soup, breac, babier 
and marna lade, washed down by a hot cup of soc@@e talking of washing 
this ceremony was preformed togetner with oon making, fire ex 
Sto, by one bucke: of water. which was carried t the hiil top without 
the expect d loses of sontcats by a member of the us Clarke ye 
A vests then on into the unknown with frequent changes of packse | 
eonteats of which being very mach debatede Temperature alifiand seeming 7 
to rise Hr gee ae perley everlastings, golden rods, turtle heads, mapies, 
birch, u plum and tame les were seon av if in d hass till the 
Spring witn its —1 — that got up late that morning at aix celock was 
reached. At a.. Strliypolite hove in to sight with ite oheeker play ine 
eureéd who was heard to give a few words oa “Les billes dans la ville". 

It wan found that = plaee was known just re nd the lake which would 
make a good eamp for the night, sut alter two alles it was still just = 
around the Lake 80 a quarter beach and raft wa found and — 4 
until the next day dispite the hot time and cold nighte A pare rs 
binoculars proved entert@ining scanning the nine by four lake its island . 
homes and campse These last were passed for the final time with relue- = 
tance at two elle homeward to.nde 

Shawerlage was reashed in a few hours two by two sorabled like the 8 
omeelet was when the ea were dat ome A discussion enoued giris for the * 
dance, a campsite near to with hot and old run waber and milk, 
telnbeds for seven, a sold supper and 2 Lot . unh, This tarce@ out 


—— — 


rubber aade up the greater parte Yonderfal sountry W’nderful adventures 
Oh My Back * Geo I'm glad I°M bax 
ao oft Ane Un-Used there. r 


We would Like to know: 


If Wally picks up all the girls in St:Sauveur? And takes 
for a walk along the railroad track when the station. 
lights sre out. 5 


4 


The reason Doug slept in the Sowen's dar the other n. 
If Wally Got the harness of the steak presented to 3 
himearly ‘riday mornings 2 
What certain Seniors see in Canary dot ragen 4 4 
75 


i 
7 


If en Richardson and Mike McNaughton enjeyed their — 
run back ‘rom darois Friday afternoca?’ 

If Frank Ularke Likes carrying two buckets, was it 
water r portes. i 

en -iehardwon and Mike Melaughton have gon to 
Galatea tonight? 


~ — ~ = 


A neu set of teeth especially for steak, Apply to 
2 Graig abi raid. 5 
. A F 
| ‘ „„ easte to tee torte” 
&@. » A 
3 tr. 
— Some clothes for Bob Ineeland, All donations gratefual- 
1 received at the Crow's leste 
* A bigger and better leaf for Mark Charlton. 


fo the first ten boys apylying to the Mount nl in Juvenile Seotion 
@ 


before six oglosk Sunday morning, u wil) give one chose late bar caghe 
This 81 the first time this year that this has been done, ag srevic : 
the dane has been to „een went to lake Gulndon Yo sight and 


large 
bring tack a treat for the first ten beyse Ton forg:t sowe 


DUROTHY DIX AVVISK 20 Hw LOVE. LORN 


bear borothy “ld Girl: 
you Over deen in Love? 

Yours Truly George brug n. 
Dear George: 


So but i have been mer ied. 
Yours 5. 
Dear Miss Din. 


What is the difference between a be nine and an optinist. 
Yours Vlarke Merrite 


Dear Clarzce 
4 98831186 is one who has experienced very tuning an optimist looks 
forward too. D. b. 


N around for the last few alightes I save come to the 4 
oon fusion that ali girls are alike. ‘the only difference is that some 
ei@is play square with maa ant others play — with them. 


2 & . 


all the girls are alike why d sen want so 


= Dear 148 Dix 5 | } 
1 I an very found of dane ag and sy fri née think that i walé 
make 1 girl, would you sévice me to % in for this career? . 

7 — Giri from 11 Hill. i 


7 


I would Like to be a eolumsist Like alter Wiagnéll. „ — 


Yours Sob Gibsole 


* 


n ae 
1 una te 
7 ‘om * a 


