fi hedry, 
oe sf: “Die ae ea 
. we 4, 
Zx7y CY 
” ‘ fis y i ee 
: : . ow ae *, t _ eS on cs, tad Ses 
\ \ 3 i = i 77 Mime Nowe 
\ ist hi Zé i 
~ ' \ \ eal \ } } f Ji 


oft. * YN 5, ‘ : Z \ eae a4 ’ ~ rs : ps 
rd % a Pt } ~. 7 wv ~ 
- \ to le) 4 A ree Nae geepines hai N ¥ < 
* V 1 f S 


Seianhadieiaeaeeen 


element -SPSfr-rep—-ereeetegy coupe pee reseeearn ee 
- lmmentthentiinmmeatonen 


RAL? Contin . Tagust 22-1020, 
SE a a ge aren ne nese OE ey 
MASQUARADE BALL 


Last Saturday night saw the success of another annual masquarade ball, Like laet year 
tle Taventle Section held a seperate ball of their owny while over in the dining hall 
the Juniors and Seniors held theirs, After the genoral march led by Doug Fairbairn tin 
which the winners wore pieked, there wes croup sineine, Following thie was a solo by 
A.ian AbLett, and a short talk by Dottop Brauc, The feature of the evening was the 
hobs dance, after which refreshments were served, A moonlight dip was also a highlight 
of the successful ball, 


LIFESAVING 


whe life seving classes have been in full swing there last few weeks with the total 
Reyeal Life Saving Awards won up to this date sot at forty. A fine record, certainly the 
condidates necd to be congratulated. All those still interested in training for life 
soving avards arc asked to comminitate 29 Hoon as possible with Doug Fairbairn, the 
Pirestor of life saving, Those tho heave passed Royal Avards am reeely ing eredits tow 
wards, the Ye sGeds Life Saving Avayds, Many lcadors and staff have enrolled nd boys 
will be pleased to know that they cén contizue their training et tho various "Y" tonks 
in the. citys 


SORN ROAST GRaT SUCCESS 


Last Thursdey night for the first time this year the camp hed its mnual com rocsts, 
This following the Mosk: Triel proved just cs popular, ifter a fou somes the cartper s 
prescnted their meal tirkets ench recciving & cob of corn which was caton by all end 


vith much relish (as well, as salt ma pepyar }¢ veVike 


The seeond all canp roast wes lest Frid uy night, Each section of the eamrp had a 
Toca of its oun, The Juveniles wor on the tack bellfiold, tho Juniors commendeercd 
thoir campus, vhile the Soniors sncalod off to Ferovell Roek with Portor Breees. A "HOT- 
DOG" time was held by all and ach temrks es. "this onc has a teil verc COMMON» 
ditors Notes Fred Welnar was untouchcC3.eescs ‘Bad Meas) 


If there are to be any comments on the paper please ect in touch with the Zditor 
et the Senior Pavliement any aight atter saled, ‘Run, Run, Run »8- or sce Whittealls 


