or pa 


Tues. 30 Mar. 1937. 


The Green Triangle 


Spring Issue. 


Tom-day Jo Peep, the demon all-seeing, all-telling Green Triangle 
snooper, is going columnist. This problem of writing an issue of the © 
Green Triangle is not an easy one to solve, especially when many of the 
contacts of last year's camping season have been tangled up by the 
threads of time and distance, But just as there is now a gradual awaken. 
ing of the Spring season, likewise is there an awakening of thoughts of 
the coming camping good times. In the last few days, Jo Peep has been 
greeted by not just a few, but many of last year's campers, all with 


the gossip of camp on their lips. Even he, himself, has found his thoughts 


and speech turning towards reminisences of Kanawana, Yesterday Jo went 

on a long walk through woods, over fields, and the hilly contours of the 
old sea beaches at the end of the island. In the distance Mount Royal 
rose up With a blue-purple haze, and farther beyond the first foothills 
of the Laurentians near Shawbridge.framed his mind with the pictures of 
what had been and what was to be. Green Triangles are wont to be efforts 
of humour, poking fun at this camper, that counselor, and this director; 
but the distance of time casts varied pictures on our mental motion pict- 
ure screen. Let us forget the attempt to try to be funny for awhile, and 
Jo will try to pick out some of these verbal snapshots from a memory full 
of interesting picture experience. 

It is only the privilege of a few to open camp. Do you remember last 
year in one of the chapel services, that it was mentioned that in the first 
truck load of those sent to ‘break camp’, there was a group forming almost 
a League of Nation nationalities Jack Cameron, the golfing Scot, Capt. 


Kidd, the piratical British Columbian Canadian business major-domo, 


26 


Neri Guadagni, the Italian card sharp, Wes Woo, the story-telling Chinese 
mandarin, Bud Flaherty, the Americian biologist, and Jo Peep, the 
expatriated English Haile Selassie. And this mixture of nationalities, mich 
like the mixture of different types of campers,;wase banded together to 


learn how, by experience to get along with each other. Camping is fun, but 


) 
camping is also Opportunity to meet, play with, work with, and understand 
those with whom we come in contact. And this picture of many different 
types of boys and men living harmoniously through the camping season of 
Kanawana should be an indelible mental merk in our memory to indicate 

just what Kanawana has meant and will mean to all who. are fortunate to 
spend even but a short time there, 

Picture mumber two is a double exposure - the opening and closing 
Spirit of Kanawana camp fires in the Council Ring. If Jo Peep had to select 
just two days to spend in camp, and no more, he would choose the day 
camp opened officially to the campers and the last night that the whole 
camp gathered in th e Council Ring. You have heard people say: "Words 

uel Nn mer a belt 
cannot describe oe ieee ie ween It is very true of the spect- 
acle of those two impressive campfires. The beginning and the end ~ yet 
not the end, for there is no end to friendship and companionship founded 


on such principles left on the photographic plate of our memories. 
There are so many pictures on the roll of film in our mind-camera: 


The sudden rise of Lake Kanawana when the Chief took his 


momning dip; 

The love-light in Hal Betts eyes; 

John Perason's trip to the scaffold 

Curry Carmichael's experience with the cow 
The Chef's birthday cake of tin 
The peedbert cane against the Boy's farm 
Haile Selassie's visit to Kanawana 


Yep Spectra sabia held he der 


3. 


Marshall LeBeau's symphonic orchestra 

The piano recitals of Hal Potter sq hall, 

The Champion Junior Camp Basebeil team 

The Senior Camp's St. Sauveur choru 

The noonday sing-songs 3 

Jack Cameron's hair cuts 

The senior director trying to blow the royal salute 

The canoe trips to Weir and Lac Archambault 

The hikes to Laurel, Maurois, Morin Heights, and Otoreke 

Graham Pelley's cheer-leading 

The melody of Bill Paul's violin solo in the woods at 
chapel service 

The Sunday crease in George Flower's pants 

John Pearson's amateur hour trumpetting 

Gordie Appleton's evening strolls to the Junior League Camp 

The Marois day regatta, show, and dance, 

Dick Abrahma singing, mandolfning, and mouthorganing 

Bill Crawfords morning stroll of Parliamentary inspection 

The chef's raisin pie 

Circus day hamburgers and hot dogs 

The ice cream for Sunday's dinner 

Pete Marshall's diving 

Mr Philips swimming across the lake 

The doctor's bridge - his game not his teeth 

The spirit of the Juvenile counsellors 

The marshmellow and weiner roasts 

The track meet 

Moonlight over Kanawana 

The pisnic at the Haunted House 

Paddling through the Suez at sunset 

The arrival of new campers 


These are but a very few of the titles to the pictures we have seen and 
keep in our memory. You can add your own to this limited list. 


By the way, a letter has just been handed to me. The Chief is supposed 
to have received it just to-day. What ? It's a letter from Mr. Pagé: 
Mon Cher M. McDiarmid: 

It was long time I was not seeing you. It is for writing to 
you to be presenting my tanks for your letter and the book you 
have publish for Kamp Kanawana. De firs page she is amuse me. 
Tonnere, monsieur, your picture she's got hair on top. De seconde 
page she's funny. She's say - Camping is fun. Sacré bleu de St. 
Sauveur. She's not so fun pour me. Lastyear me I was sleep so : 
warm one night she's cold. I'm waking UPe You*re asking me for 
why I say camping she's not so fumy. St. Catharine, my bed 


she's cover with chickens and shells of de egg. One douzaine of 


4. 


petits poules I see. Some camper she's place de egg for hatch 
in my bed. She's hatch. De chickens she's tink I am der mudder. 
She's follow me around for day's I'm not being able for work. 
You remembair too you was for asking me to cut down tree in 
Junior camp. I cut de tree. De bee she was inside. I run. de 
bee she fly, I fly, de bee she follow. I am not Jack Benny, 
no more I want to play wid bee. Camping she's fun, Quai, for 
de odder Rellow, for Mr. Pagé she's plenty troub. Mais ca 
fait rien M. le Chief, for me I not mind so long dat cemping 
she's fun pour les campeurs. Adiew mon ami, remembair me 

to all Kanawanians, and telling them I8ve got new shot gun. 


Again, nevaire, me I am no chicken mudder 


Votre devoué 


Alphonse Bertrand, St. Denis 


Christophe Pagé 


Pop spence ; W redecoth ot Wer. Y. 

Hal betts -— Wer +o Wade ree wal -AA . 

John Pearson - Ks unable: 

Frank Sharpe ‘. —— 

The Chief - sleek Wik wal er-wtrh% AVer de. 

The Chef ~ . Cr4l—+ , 

S Aide = Welt ding Hendy bude at Aud , 


Jack Cameron 
Doe. Crossier -, Conner thave - 

John Proscuerin . Geel wre ' beg ey 
George Flower ° Wels vl . Nec 4 fresh ear bea. 
Hal Potter . Sy Wecvgod tia , Yaya deh. 


Gordie Appleton " 


te, oe: Penpals ‘ 


Henry Shrivell -. ca 


5. 
John Kydd : byadercin [rw hw . Mee “ Sh Cl * 
Graham Pelley — Warn coh abie ‘ 


Bill Watson . Vera. Y. © 

Dick Abr&tn : Obra tt tawea Cee ta 
Marshall Lebeen . Wer ll ; 

John Retalack : Wav | | 

Bud Flaherty © Sw h ewaline. ° 

curry Carmichael > (emee-u Yew , bo ail 

Neri Guadagni ~ Bee Wt ervey A 

Larry Corbett - 

Doug Heilly . Ww MM, be 7 

fr Sune > S4vatornra. 

hil Mane A oC h 

Qeandrem War 

eva WI Moe «. wrk 4 rVanwe 
arnt Wille) Vda teh oe TAR 


eames Seith Bong tke Trew 
a | 


