Vol. 4, Noe . July 20, 1935. 


THE GREEN TRIANGLE : 


Here we are, fellows with the fifth edition of the Green Triangle, 
and we hope you'&1 like it; but we mst remind you that you would like it 
a great deal more if it contained some of your works so send in your 
contributions + anything about any person, thing, or body, and have the 
joy and pleasure of seeing or rather of hearing it in print. Don't forget, 
the address of the Editorial Dep't is Tent 4, Juvenile section, or a 
telephone ¢ail to the wigwam will receive prompt attention. 


-000- 


We would like to take this opportunity to welcome on behalf of the 
whole camp ur. Fowle, photographer, who has done a great deal of work in all 
parts of Canada and who is going to take a class in photography and many 
pictures of th camp besides. Friday at noon he took a mass picture of all 
Campers, which has proven to be very successful and a print of which is now 
on display in the dining hall. 


~o0o~ 


Last weekend the camp was very privileged in having as a visitor 
My. Howard Ce Ross, K. C., prominent Montreal lawyer, who addressed the camp 
Sunday morning in the chapel. His talk was a most interesting one, consisting 
for the most part of the reading of a number of very clever modern poetry. 


me whole camp is looking forward with keen anticipation to the time when 


Mr. Ross shall again visit Hanawana. 
~000- 


Tast Sunday was a very beautiful day, affording opportunity for 
a record number of visitors. If to-morrow be as fine, even more may enter 
into the sacred precincts of Kanawana. 


~o0o~ 


One of Iast Sunday's visitors left this story and Code of Sports- 
manship with the editor: 

Larry Shields, the Penn State miler, was hailed as a hero in spite 
of the fact that he lost the distance medley ralay race at the championship 
games in Philadelphia. Shields and Connolly of Georgetown were running on 
even terms as an anchor when they bumped each other and Connolly fell to 
the cinders. Shields, instead 17 putting on a burst of speed, slowed to a 
= — “hee one picked himself up and was again on even terms 

„ Then he 8 ed the sprint that won the race 
But he was disqualifiea because the track Judges said 8 ph inci 


as responsible 
for Connolly's fall, Nevertheless cis name is more renowned for that race than 


any other in his glorious career. 
Here is the Code of a Good Sport: 
17% Thou shalt not quit. 


Be Thou shalt not alibi. 
$s Thou shalt not float over winning. 
4. Thou shalt not be a rotten loser. 


‘Se Thou shalt not take unfait advantage. 
Honor the game thou playest, for he wha U ee 


ea. Gata cb. _ 


Dorothy Dix's Advice th the Lovelorn. 


Dear Miss Dix, 

Many women have entered my life, but you are stilb the 
only woman in life for me. Perhaps it is the mystery about you that 
fascinates me. What would you do if I kissed you? 

Youts ‘curiously, 
Doug Macdonald. 


Dear Doug, 
T would not be in a position to say anything. 


he EE Oe — me A me es 


Deer Miss Dix, 
I have attended both Queens and 100111 Universities, but I 
am still trying to find out whether coeeds are afraid of Kissing. 
Yours in despair, | 
Lorne Hamilton. 
Dear Iorne, 


Are you trying to fool us? Heh, heh? A lot mst have 
been going on right under your nose. 


Dear Dot, 
Have you any idea what is going on is Marois thie summer? 
What are the prospects? 
Jun Mills. 
Dear Jin, 
The outlook for this simmer is quite Grey. 


LS Oe ee me cee — le oe a OO 


Dear Dorothy, 
All the girls keep chasing me although I do not want to get 


married. They say I am just being selfish. Wat exeuse can I give for being 
a batchelor 
The Vhief. 


Dear Chief 


must have been after him awful thingsy those mosqui toes. . don't seem to have 
any mamers at all. Gorge themselves at all hours. . . not at all lilte us flaesecee 
Sorry fellows, I've got to go now. I'll try to drop up again next mes 
weekeond «oe if my wife will let me. 
AU revoir. 
~000= 


Kanawana Thru’ a Keyhole, by Snoope 


Fér real comvdy on the hake you should see certain Juvenile Leaders trying to 
decide whether to stay in camp or to brave the rain and cross the lake. 


The bank really should be open on Sundays, IT8s being closed makes it very 
difficult for certain leaders when visitors come up on Sundays. 


Can someone please tell us if Hugh Ray always kisses the bobs in his tent good naght? 


It seems strange, but all the Leaders in Senior Camp seem to have banded to-gether 
to petition for a girl's camp on Lake Wislon. 


Is Les Bourbas still labouring under the delusion that Kanawana is supplied with 
electricity? 


Art Jeffries, dear, have yo. taught her tio swim yet? You know, two can live as 
cheaply as one, especially when one(s a horse and the other a Sp W . 0 E 


Beer since the Farmer's Daughter got married Graham Pelly has stayed in camp on 
his days off. We're beginning to wonder öf she comes in to see him? 


We see Doug Macdonald in the audience. Is she sore at you for leaving early Wednesday? 


~o0c= 


