Aug. 13, 1936. 


The Green Triangle 

Marois Issue 

For many weeks and many days ey. eee and we've longed 
To see the girls we've raved about i in some ways have wronged 
For when the camping week has come unto our night of shows ae 
: _ Wetve told so many tales about what keeps us on our toes Cae 
err nee 7 th&t have—- in — - ao 
ey =, The girls we'we sung about within this Green triangle i eet. 
Are the girls who keep our boys in a persistent tangle. é 


But now we gaze upon you 411 in finery chic and smart 


And realize just why we've had a palpitating heart 
ae sincere and just and true 
Without a doubt we speak our mind in-siucoerity-Sruc-and-juss 
We can see now before our eyes the reasons we love you 
Such tilted chins and pouting mouths such eyes and oh such lips 
Eleftric sparks move up are backs and tingle finger tips ve 
Such cheeks and hair and dancing feet and smiles like toothpaste ad_ 
No wonder that the thought of you-haws driven our boys mad. a 


So just before we tell our news we'd like to speak our thought 


We welcome you with open hearts just as we've been taught. 


The Green Triangle i8 a Sheet that-deals with loads of dope ~~~ ~~ 
About affairs within this camp from sad despair to hone 
- The love affairs are scandalous and letters run so rife 
That just to take a peek at them almost costs one's life 
But none the less we must divulge the love affair de luxe 
eee John Pierson'who 't is said has everything it tooks 
He's got a girl called Rosie who'se with us here to-day 


jolie 
Une Canadienne Francaise with: spirits very. ey 


eed 


So from our. files of aks 8 I veads this love's sweet BONE. 


=. We-ond#she 6 iapis ther tale | 
it % fervent Draye _ tha: 


Do.this-oustaey~of-Loyo-our-Joha-sont-his-replyy 


26 


- 


It is very unfortunate that we have ep ates ee details about the 
|e FUG 
love-life of the junior director, but this letter is a sample of what is 


to be expected from a wierd young lady in Weir: 


My dear Pansy-Flower Jean: 

It was with great pleasure that I am tolling you how much I am 
inspire by your: magnifique devotion and luff. I am thrilled, 4 am 
isniGee cs overwhelmed like senior camp whose tent fall down, 
RBut my heyes they cry. Twenty miles you are passing away from me 

as the crow she fly, and my arms seulement are only 20 inches de 
longeur. Fly to me. I have hear that one smart looking forester 

is passing himself in your camp with motor bicycle. Jumping yourself 
on top him and put-put yourself to my ever-awaiting aimse 

Until you are arrive, sometimes I am passing my time with Bill, 
how his heyes she shine when he is toling me of what that light she 
mean, Arthur he was visit me yesterday-in his new Pachard, and 
Francois has invite me to la dance to-mprrow when the moon she is 
- clear, I am spendine to-night with Lorne, he is what you call a 
techival advisor, but what a pasion - flower of love potion. But 
I feel ver' lonesome, There seems to be so few fellows passing 
their time near me. T wait for you with greatest of hope that.you 
will be bringing to me that great Chief of Kanawana whout whom fou~ 


was speak so much. 


Bi luff you. passionately, 


and for longtime, 
Rosie La Flamme. 


To this ecstacy of love our John sent his reply 
And on the wings of love's refrain to her he let it fly: 


Love letters of @ j 


¥ 


Dearest sue ene soni: Sweetheart of my ele Daze: 


nee 


"the light o of-my life, the joy of my heer the ltus blossom of my ne 
love 
eee the eyephony of ay tite, why must you treat me Bs asf soul-weary 


ached ad with the =e of unrequited “Passion when T knew that Y SE could no 


down a hardened Gibraltar heart of my loveless chief diector who 
in my love-wracked heart only 
spprasiate the ever-presnt desire to see you if but for once a . week. 


“content my self with running around a track at the Boys! Farm when Be, 


fashion in thoughts of you at Weir. ‘It sang a song, @ sone of love, — 


of sostacy yet of deppair » the song called 'Wétry River", Some parts of 


now pervade my despondent mind : 


were River, Weiry River, J 
Flowing in the rain, = ; 
My true love, off my true love, 
When will we meet somal 


He ‘Life is a song, but one of jealousy when you write of all ‘the men, me 
men who sing to you in the moonlight, who take you for. ead rides, 
speak tis thoughts that lovers speak, who tell you of your charms : of the 
f light in your eyes, of the tenderness of your teuch,_of the g® pansy if | 
hue of your mouth, and the eiderdown spring of your dancing feet. oh 


k oh Weiry man, of woeful me, oh lovely you, oh Kanawana, oh sugard ~ 


\ F < —< 
\ =. 4 


Your-psssien-flower, 


-gohn- 
Patsy -ab-sy orry 6h, 

My heart's a fire at the day. 
Patsy oabaey orry eee = 
"Tt needs @ fire packet. 


a. 


It is a sin to tell these tales that Jo Snook tells to-day 
But this is what yo. wanteto hear and for their sins they pay 
But in a file so new and crisp anether-flaxen-headed another note I see 


4-Lively-lyrie 
A lyric of.Retallack's tae for one who here did tea . 


Now John has many many girls for handsome brute he #e- seems 
And on all sundry morsels sweet he casts his smiling beams 
Here is the lyric stééped in thought here are the words he vrote 
The only trouble in this case is John just missed the boat: 
Betty, Oh betty, oh betty my dear 

How my heart flutters when you are near 
You make a bright day out of one that is drear 

For the look in your eyes makes me so oueer 

Betty oh betty oh betty my dear 

O one most fair, most sweet, most true 
When you're away I em so blue 


As Is@w you blush at the table with me 
T knew you must join my family tree 


Qus--Most-dificuls-task-of-all-shis—fine-night 
is-to-sinsle-out-cirls 


About us all here at this festal board 


Surveyed 


5e 

Now Kanawana boys in our dining hall neat 

Are the girls that the counselors each week do meet 
Theyre There are Greys and the Jacksons and the smrt Hunter twins 
Robinsons, Sprotts, and all the other 0 Mins 
But list to this tale of Appleton and 
A young maid called Baikie from Junior League land 
Gangling over the trail with long stride 

Gordie watks far for Mildred his pride 

When the evening's twilight swoops over us all 
Gordie meanders with his six foot six tall 
With knapsack slung over his Ichabod arm 

To meet Mildred near the Junior Girls farm 
Mildred is blushing like moon with face red 

And Gordie is prattling some nonsense instead 

Of just being quiet Like-cient-with-misht and gazing with awe 
With his eyes widene# out and with gaping jaw 

That here once again was the desire of his soul 

The girl who was filing his heroine's role. 

he he 

The things that they said and the way that she spoke 
Was enough to astound all our camping folk 

he he'd 

They told of the work thevld been doing eéach-hour - _ 
Instead of speaking of things that would wow her 
Johnnie Retallack had once missed the boat . 

And now over Gordie we are privileged to gloat 

So as we sit here with news such as this | 

Gordie, remember: that your pretty miss 

Likes to hear of the stsrs and the moon in the tregs 
With the music of lowe in the soft a breeze 
Speak of pale hands and the beauty of youth 

And the Pepaodent: snile of each pearly tooth 


Act, Like the others dabbling in love 


And forget your ae feet towering above, 


There are many such tales to be told just like these 

Of the beautiful girls and their manly hes 

There's John Kidd and another from the Junior League Camp 
The charming Dot Lathe, the mixen, the scamp, 

But time is forbidding, the price has been paid 

For sins of our campers and each pretty maid 

But before we close out with ‘er parting worde 

Most of our paper is drivvle absurd 


But we must confess that the more yo do 


The more that we'll write, be it false or part true. 


