THE GREEN TRIANGLE. 
SR RAN cmc 
July 21. KAMP KANATTANA, Issue 2. 
a ee ee auc be 
HIKING: = FEATURE OF KANAVIANA-1940. 


108 Kanawanians out for overnight trips during the past weck. Some of the campers 
only went as far as Lako Wilson to experience a little " bush-camping "- othors 
vent " compass-hiking " though the country between here and Newago is comparitively 
new for some of the campers. One Scnior hike took the trail to Fourteen Island Lake 
then up to St. Hippolyte and across th Mont Rolland and St. Adele, then hit back 
for camp. Three juniors were given special permission to hike alone over to Fourtcen 
Island Lake and back. These three, Godfrey Marin, Don Pridham, and David Knight 
proved themselves to be responsible hikers. Anothor departure along these lines was 
&n overnight eanoc trip around the Kanavana Lakes by four Juniors, Jim Scott, Alex 
Vukmirovitch, Don Suthorland and Ken Kelly. They had such a good time that they didn't 
come back until hunger drove them in. 


Two bush campsites have been completed on Lake Wilson. They are left ready for occupa- 
tion at any time - in the true " big bush " tradition, and sre proving a good place 

for the younger campers perticularly to get experience at camping in the open. They 
sleep on balsam bough beds, cook their own meals, and generally fend for themselves. 
From this first experience they then venture further afield. 


With the opening of the Trading Post, hiking seems to have taken on a new interest. 

A leader cancome to the post, consult maps and get advicc about where to go and how 

to get there (and BACK) ;his hike is outfitted, supplied with food, his campers arc 
shown how to pack their " stuff " snd make blanket rolls; he is told how to prepare 

his food ( if he doesn't already know); and generally speaking he and his erew are sent 
Oh their way properly equipped and supplied for good hike. Hach hike is a complete unit 
independent of village stores and farms- end so the tendency is avay from the beaten 
tracks and more tovards the ” back-country *. Good Stuff! 


CAMPSITE. 


In a clearing by a lonely lake with mountains hovering nigh, 

A little camp is nestled, and white smoke drifts to sky. 

A stream of age-old voices runs, and winds vith softest sound 
Waft incense of the wilderness - of wind - and rain - and ground. 


SWIM NOTES. 


On Friday afternoon the RED HATS had a swe laps form cock to shute, using ” breast 
1l splash party at Beesies. The boys spla- stroko ", * back stroke " or " crawl." 
shed and ducked in the shallow water while A swimmer's style is judged by two staff 
the Juvenile leaders patrolled on shore. members. 
Most of these RED HATS have thier minds The swimming mcet on Thursday vas a success 
made up to win GRTEN HATS before long. Camp champions are: Stan. Christie, in the 
twelve and under class, Bob. Mahn in tho 
fo date, over 100 campors have swam the fifteen and under and Roger Jaeger in the 


lake. Fiftecn have past STAR SWIM. Hale Leaders and Staff race. Jack Liddy is the 
Eular is giving help cvory morning on the longest under water swimmer, 
Pum Or eockto. those who: wat: to tmproyve (~~ Sg eS ee ee ee ee ee 


their stroke. The STAR THST calls for five 


- Page 2 - 


ECHOES OF THE STAFF'S DAY OFF SENIOR HIKE 
Ed Raflaub using a golf club to dig his 
way around the Shawbridge course with a Under the direction of Joe Stoye, the 
flock of blackbirds following him up ..... hikers left camp on Manday. That night they 
"Chief" shooting a thirty-five - then slept on the shores of Fourteen Island Leke 
going to the third hole after dinner ...., ina bathing-hut. Second night which was 
Roby Kidd talking a great game and dazzl- reiny was rainy was spent in a barn, 


ing all other golfers with his white plus 4s The first interruption was a stampede of 
"The Doc", Gordie Mackie, Ed. Smee, and horses which came into the barn and wokened 
Johnnie Read wielding mean rackets on the everybody, About six o'clock a French farmer 
tennis court while Henry saw a garage man came in and secing the hikers' packs wes 
who took the lid off "The Kettle" eeoeee mildly surprised, 
Wednesday was hob - darned hot ; Tired, 
THURSDAY'S ALL-CAMP PROGRAMME dusty,but satisfied, the boys arrived home 
The programme got under way with songs about three in the afternoon. 
under the direction of Tom Hardwick and Hal 
Euler, Then, aound the rocks, an Indian brave §§ -----+-+-+«-- 
came into views; he prayed to Wakonda to light 
the fire, Suddenly with a bright blue flash COMING  -EBENTS_ 
and a great hissing sound, the fire flared up. 
"The Kanavana Pump-House Boys", Bruce Next Thursday is "THE BIG DAY" - the 


Johnson, George Blackburn, Ed Smee, and Fred Kanawana Circus. Right after rest-period a 
Weiner played three mouth-organ selections, parade will begin around the campsite, end- 


"The Salesman's Competition" needed ing at the Junior Campus, where all sorts of 
three heats to find the winner, booths will be sét up. A number of tent and 
Jack Liddy did a keen rhumbs to the cabin groups have started to plan for booths 
accompaniment of guitars,his straw skirt and There will be something for young,old, Kidds 
Other npparell falling off quite often, and Stablers - so ROLL UP - LET'S MAKE IT 4 
Roby Kidd and Ernie Stabler put on a REALLY BIG DAY ! Wheecee! and WHOOPEREEER ! 
mind-reading show. Many campers refused to ANOTHER BIG TIME in the near future will 
believe that it was black magic, be the trip to the Shawbridge Boys' Farm. aA 
Ed Smee's story which built up to a terrific ball-game, swimming races and track events 
let-down came next, will be on the programme. 


The singing of "taps" closed the programme, 


— emma 


JUNIOR HIKE TO MORIN HEIGHTS _ 


SENIORS ON LAKE WILSON 
On Tuesday, Pete Sinclair and Ken Tait, 
Last Tuesday evening nine seniors enjoyed set out for Morin Heights via Becsics and 
a moonlight cruise on Lake Wilson. Comfort- Chester. Dinner was eaten on the gallery of 
ably nestled in three canoes, they listened the half-way store. The same night, the hikers 
to Meredith Wilson's music on a portable slept on the gallery of the home of one of 
radio. Following this Programme, Robie read Ken's reletions. It was an uneventful night 
&@ most interesting story with the title "Call although George Osborne:.did réll off the 
me Spike". Througm the dense mist which nearly gallery. Up early, and on the way to St. 
blottedc out the shore-lines, the seniors re- Sauveur, the hikers put away a good breakfast. 
turned to Camp for a moonlight dip They arrived back in Camp about one o'clock 


and had dinner atb their tent. 


In the carly hours of t'other morning, Bob 


Robinson;enjoyed bacon and eggs in a nearby On Friday afternoon Hank did not take his 
mountain chalet, Next morning the yoke waS usual three-hour nap. Instead, he cleaned the 
on him, +++ The other night somebody tried to inside of his car. Then, just before supper 
salt the doctor down, his bed was well sprinkled. he dipped. Soon after supper he left 


- Page 
( continucd ) 
-camp mystcriously in the"Kettle" now 20 
lbs. lighter, and equipped with a net 


slung underneath to catch the spare parts. 


- =- = = = ©=— ee we ee 


Last Monday, the entire Juvenile 
tripped gaily over to the old 
fora picnic, 
arrow 
Cabin and Tent rivalry was very strong in 
field and water races. After weiners and 


For a start there was an 


chocolate milk, a short camp-fire programme 


followed. Fearing n storm, the Juveniles 
marched homeward as the gathering dusk 
clothed the stately hills in prrple hues. 


NEW ___HOBBY 

The making of cushion-covers is an art 
which was browght by Ed Smee from Erie 
Heights camp and is proving very popular, 


_JUVENILES TO GET NEW GATE 

One of the new Juvenile leaders is al- 
ready at wotk on a new entrance for the 
Juvenile Section. It will be at the upper 
gateway near the Lodge, and when completed 


will be one of many Juvenile projects. 


a JUVENILE LEADERS VS. SENIORS 


In the last half of the closing inning 
on Wednesday night, Juvenile Institute was 


leading the Seniors 10-7 . The Seniors came 


from behind however with fighting fury 


during their last time at bat and blasted in 


three runs to tie the score. 
Batteries were - for the Seniors - 


Lemoyne and Reade - for the Juvenile Leaders 


‘-Hardwick snd Farquharson. 


The Chief, Bob Robinson, and Ed Raaflaub 
slept cut on Thursday night at Farewell 
Rock . Brrrraaave Menn ! 


race which led the group to the Camp. 


3 - 


JUNIOR HIKE TO "KANGAROO" LAKE 
Arnold Richter and Ross Deacon led their 
hikers out of Camp shortly before dinner on 
Monday morning. They arrived at Chester's 
via Becsies in mid-afternoon.Then after 
pottering around a bit trying to find the 
right trail, the; back-tracked to Morin 


Section Heights where with the farner' sce 
"Orphan Camp" 4)-~ = e farmer's permission 


they slept in a barn. From there they hiked 
by way of Lac Gevreuil to Montfort - where 
they again encountered difficulty in finding 
their trail, finally ending up about three 
miles from Morin Heights. The next day they 
all relaxed - and took it easily back to 
Camp for supper. 


JUVENILE CANOE TRIP - UP NORT' 
Monday morning, six of us piled into the 
back of Jack Cameron's car and were off th 
St.Donat de Ifontcalm. Here wec got our 
permits to travel in the bush. Then we were 
all set to go - and we did so in good style. 
While crossing Lake Pembina we saw a porcu- 
pine, and later a flock of wild ducks. At 
our camp on Lac Lajoe that night, Ed Power 
demonstrated how to flip flapjacks. We got 
as Lac Bois Franc next day where we stayed 
for the whole of the next day. The weather 
was perfect and we slept out under the stare 
most of the time. One moonlight night we 
saw the rear end of a moose disapparing into 
the bush. There were lots of trout jumping 
but we didn't catch any. The flies are neai 
ly gone now, It was a great expe rionce, an 
Bob MacAllister, Dave Bailey, Dan Woodward 
Eric Harvey, Alex Cherney, Don Walters, an 
Chuck Hazen, Ed's assistant, all wish that 
they were about to start all over again, 


Editor-in-chief..ces.coeseel0m Lawson 
Juvenile Editore.scecessceoeks Farquharson 
JUNLOr _LdLOIawe.caesiceae se ULLeYy 
Senior Editoresecececscseebe McCullough 
Business ManagereceseseoeNe Beaton 
Last night some staff members paid an 
official visit to the YWCA Cemp, 
Oolavhan,e - SOME FUNIYS 


JUVENILE INDIAN PROGRAMME 


WAKANDA calls his braves to council, 
in the shadow of his tepee where business 
of import is discussed, and tests of skill 
single out the strong. 

The Juvenile cemp assembled in their 
council circle where they opened their 
session with obeiscence to Wakonda. The 
fire was lit, not in the way of the white 
man, but as Children of the Forest do, by 
rubbing together two sticks of the 
mighty treese 

The chiefs of the council discussed 
business, after they had smoked the pipe 
of peace, as their pledge of loyalty to 
their blood brothers. 

Patrick White received his feather of 
achievement, presented to him by Chief 
Kola for his efforts. 

In the contest of skill the Wyandots, 
The Snakes and the Algonquins excelled in 
their prowess over all the braves. Their 
courage and endurance won for them the 
honour and respect of the council. 

The white tepee stood in the shadows 
of the trees, reflecting the dim light of 
the fire, while the Totem pole looked down 
on the braves as they sang their song to 
the Great Father of All. Each brave felt 
the tug of the great spirit as he watched 
the embers of the council fire. Who knows 
what this means to the boy, with his 
imagination fire? by dreems and the mystic 
surroundings of Indian lure. Wakonda 
speaks to his children in strange ways, 
calling his sons to the greater life emong 
all people. 


THANK YOU, Mr. Newman, for the Movies 
last Hight. The cartoons and the feature 
picture, "Under Arizona Skies" starring 
John Wayhe, were enjoyed by every camper. 


TOMORROW NIGHT, Monday, will be ALL 
CAMP PROGRAMME NIGHT. The skits, stunts, 
and songs, which were to be given on 
Saturday, will go on then. With two extra 
days to practice they should be goods 
Watch for the Senior Playlet starring 
Jessie, the Siamese Cat. Another hilarious 
adventure of those Great Defectives, Snoop 
end Pete, will also be presented. 


JUNIOR PROJECTS 


The now basketball court on the Junior 
campus is fast rounding into shape. After 
a lot of hard vork taking out rocks and 
levelling off the boys are looking forward 
to some Keen games. 

Another Junior project which will be a 
credit to the whole camp is the ANAWANAK 
stage which Earl Reid, John Summerby, and 
Pete Sinclair along with a group of campers 
have been remodelling. The mudbowl is now 
end ideal place for All-Camp programmes. 
Thanks are due #0 Ed Raaflaub for choosing 
the site, if not the name. 


SHAWBRIDGE MEET 


At Shawbridge oh Tuesday, the track 
events will be the 100 yards, the 220, the 
440, and the mile run. Senior campers 
particularly, will be needed for these events. 
The swim distences will not be known till 
we arrive in Shawbridge. Two trials for 
campers who are fifteen and under, end for 
those who are over fifteen will be held after 
General Swim tomorrow mornings Every camper 
has the opportunity of making the swim end 
camp teamse 


TONIGHT 'S MUSICALE 


Good music will feature tonights programe 
Piano selections by Bob Olding «md Bill 
McConnell, a solo by Alex Vukmirovich, and 
guitar numbers by Ed Smee and Gordon Mackie 
will be given. Other highlights will be a 
vocal solo by Bud Leblanc and group singing. 


SENIORS AT LAKE BECSCIES 


Last Tuesday evening eight husky seniors 
led by Bob McCullough left Senior vharf in 
two boats. Once over the trail, Eric 
Peuscher took one look at the Kanawana boat 
stationed on Becscies and was off like a 
flash. Before turning in thet night Jacques 
Dubuc and “Blueblades" Lemcoe hiked and 
rowed beck to camp for a broom and lamp. Bob 
and Bob Olding cooked breakfast the next 
morning. Two events featured the next day; 
Eric Teuscher slid down the old wherf and 
Bob found his glasses, 


