Kamp Kanawane : Sat, July 1, 1939. 


SUNDAY MUSICALS OPEN SUCCESSFULLY 


Musieal talent in camp blossomed brightly last Sunday when campers 
gathered in the Lodge for an hour of quiet entertainment, The programme opened 
with a rousing rendition of the eamp marching song; then Frank Patterson played 
& piano solo, HRachmaninoff's Prelude in C# minor, The eamp then joined in sing- 
ing a néw song, "In Poland there's an Inn", Bill Koss gave a violin solo, Men- 

‘ delssohn's Spring Song, This was followed with Abide With Me, a vocal by the 
Harmony Club. Frank Patterson pley3d Licbestraume by Liszt. The camp sang "We 
are elimbing Jaeobts Ladder” and the programme closed by their singing "Now the 
Day is Over" led by the Harmony Club, 


» 


STAtF VISIT JUNIOR LasGUi "BUILDINGS" 


Thres carloads of Steff members drove to the Junior League Camp 
last Tussday night, to visit the christening of two beautiful new buildings with 
Ginger «ls. They were relcomed by Mrs. Perrault, Chairmen of the Building Comm~ 
ittee, «nd Mrs, Bert Hough, the Camp Director, vith their Staff or a dozen or so 
eomely maidens, The Kanawanaians thoroughly enjoyed themselves with singing, square- 
dencing, and refreshments, returning home at a lata hour. 


Steve Gannon, guide for one one of the cars lost his way. One de- 
velopment of the visit was a second trip made next day by certain staff men for the 
alleged purpose of siding the Junior League Girlst preparations for their first 
betch of campers thet evening. This reason has been accepted pro tem, 


ST..FF SHOWS YELLING ABILITY 


another reiny dey, and at the chief's suggestion each table in ths 
dining hell composed snd delivered themselves of s yell et supper time, “he judges 
for the occasion vers Nurse Rayner, Dr. hobb end Bill Green. After a go0d deal of 
hulla-lu-hullo, the Doctor calledit a dead heat between Senior Table No. 1 and the 
Steff, in exciting "shout off" resulted in a victory for the Steff with the Seniors 
yelling'vs were gypped.' The Chief presented the prize--e large hollow bull's horn 
filled with stale chocolates vhich were hesitatingly consumed by the steff. The 
winning yells rill be printed if the demend is sufficient 


NEW FRIENDS,....OLD FRIENDS 


To us, camp is a place where we meet old friends, welk elong familiar treils 
and revive long-forgotten memories. So we nould liks to sey ‘Hello Kanawena’ with 
this initial issue of your Green Triangle, We'd like to reminisces with you about 
the good old days when the Green Triangle wes reed at the Seturday night shows, 
about the dey when it first appeared in print at two cents per copy, about the long 

line of distinguished editors who guided its past destinies —- but the future 
beckons and the thrill of new horizons calls us. In these peges you will find a 
written record of 211 that's best in camp. We still enjoy looking over the pages 

of past issues, finding the names of our frionds, leughing over well-loved jokes, 

in short, reliving past season, We hope that you, too, will save these issuss of your 
camp newspaper end store up for yourselves © packful of happy memoriss. 

And so we greet newcomers to camp with our best wishes end renew our old ec- 
queintances with the heertiest of handshakes, 


FUTURE LEADERS 


Many Keneawenians eren't aware yet thet in cemp this year ere a number of hard- 
working young men who are prepering themselves for the difficult business of lead- 
ership. These are the Assistant Leaders, fellows whom you ere going to know much 
better before the end of the summer. They ere the chaps who will relieve the 
regular leaders on days-off and assist in Sectional programme and the importent 
business of patroling. You'll find the sssistent leaders doing a number of import- 
ant and interesting things around cemp: one will be with Dr. Robb in the hospital, 
learning the fundamentels of repairing campers;. enother works in the Q. “+ with 
Basil Burg: as,studying the methods of handling the camp's equipment; still another 
will be found with Admirel Morrey Cross; striving to preserve the water-front's 
characteristic efficiency. Besides this, they will devote several periods e week 
in studying the principles end practise of leedership. 

Another younger group will be known 4s the Leaders-inTraining. Some members 
of this group ere due to errive to-day. Various members of the staff have already 
expressed satisfaction with the work being done by our assistant leaders and it is 
not too much to anticipate that this group will have made 4 valuable contribution 
to leadership and to camp life when we teke stock some nine weeks from now. So 
we*ecme fellows and the best of luck? 


. ION CAMERON 


The heart of the camp was touched lest Wednesdey when we learned of a serious 
injury to Jack Cameron's daughter, Iona. As the result of a fall, her leg wes bedly 
injured. 

We extend to Iona and her parents our sympathy and best wishes for 2 speedy 
recovery. 


THEME FOR THE WEEK 


Ged who touchest earth with beeuty, This verse from Mary Edgar's beautiful 


Meke ms lovely too, hymn, 'God who touchest earth with Beauty’, 
With thy spirit recreate me, - has been the theme of our serious think- 
Make my life anew. ing during the week and has been used. 


daily in the chapel services, 


JUNIORS TRIM SENIORS 


With ‘Welt' Herris starring on the mound, the Juniors distinguished them- 
selves in camp bell circles last Mondey night by defeating the'Senior Sleepers!’ 
by a score of 16-6, Highlight of the game, the best seen et Kenawana sinee last 
September, was Wolter Harris peving the thickory' at the centre fielder as 
'Ferky’ breezed the ball across vith tantalizing slowness for the required three. 
This demonstration vas so popular thet an encore wes successuflly carried out a 
few minutes later. The Juniors retired victorious from the field, planning the 
sleughter of the Juvenile chellengers,. 


M. MILLS ATTEMPTS RECORD SWIM 


In e« furious desh aeross the leke, '@yclone’ Mills of Juvenile Cemp wes 
elocked at 1 min.57 secs. for the fastest time since camp opened, «although this 
was not quite record time, it is a merk for both campers and leaders to shoot at, 
By this time next week there should have been meny an ettempt at speed swimming. 
How about it fellows!! 


CHIEF ISSUES CHALLENGE 


Onee egeain Chief's sporting blood boiled over as he hurled e challenge to 
the camp's volley-ball players, The Chief and his ‘Super Six! will meet and 
defeat (?) any teem in camp. The catch is that the challengers must fix the 
volley-beall court, get the equipment end provide transportation to the scene of 
ection, 11 aplications must be made in writing, steting previous experience at 
grass~cutting, court-rolling, raking and volley—bell pumping. 


JUNIOR-JUVENILS CLASH R:INED OUT 


Scheduled for Thursdsy night, the first defence of the newly acquired 
Junior Beall Crown was washed from the records by a tropical downpour. Rumour had 
it that the hardy Juvenile leaders were anchoring buoys at first and third but all 
hope wes lost when 'Steve Gannon’ star of the Juvenile 'Disper Dandies' was 
marooned et centre field. At last the Juveniles had to admit defeat at the hands 
of the weather end they retired from the field studying the latest Water-polo 
methods. The game will probably be played early next week. 


FLASH! JUNIORS RETAIN BsLL TITLE 


Retaining their championship form, the Junior 'Nine' turned back a desperate 
Juvenile esseault. With Pitcher Harris up to his usual ‘high' standard, and 
McCullough belting the ball through the infield, the champs had little trouble in 
chalking up e 10-9 victory. 

The star of the night was Bob Fullerton who specialized in pulling them 
from the atmosphere while Frohloff ras a close second, driving in five out of nine 
runs for the losers, 

Conditions were excellent except for mud and weter in the infield, tall 
gress and more mud in the outfield and floating bases at second and home, The 
Juniors, however, proved equal to the situation end water wings were issued to the 
werring factions. The game broke up in a riot when umpire Dr. Robb called Walter 
Herris ‘OUT' for swimming under water, After dredging the field for Boris' comb 
which wes lost in the excitement, the victorious Juniors retired from the field in 
& specially charted fleet of canoes. 


