j Vol. TI. No5-. ay August 5th. 1933-. “ 


THE GREEN TRIANGLE : 
-0=0= 0-0" 0= 0= 0= 0=0= 0= 0= 0" 0= 0= 0= 0 0-0-0" 0" 


Well fellows here is the fifth copy of the Green Triangle. 
ad sincerely hoped to receive more news items from the campers, even 
our star reporter, Jim Hamilton, has left us flat this week. During the 
coming week, I would suggest that all campers write down anything which 
ee. they think may be worthwhile to put in the paper. In case you think it is 

, not worthwhile, write it down anyway and hand it in. We print everything! 


Up to now we have not yet been able to get any news on 
_ the "Chief" we would deeply appreciate any information available about hin. 


Acting Editor. 


As this is the first issue of the Green Triangle since 7 
Dr, Mead arrived in Camp, we would like to take this opportunity to welcome 
him to Kanawana and we trust that his stay with us will be benificial and en- 
joyable both to him and the campers. 


>) 


ee ———— . We are | indeed very sorry to say good-bgg to Mr. Deveny 
this week. We hope that he has enjoyed his time at camp as much as we have ensoyel 
his company. He always had a cheery word for all his fellow grashoppers, and ie \ 

we feel sure that he will be groatly missed by all those who are left in camp. Wg 


We are happy to announce that the hospital beds are now empty. We haven't { 
dicided wether the weak boys have gone home or wether the campers are all tough- L 
ened in for the outdoor life. ‘3 

Ralph Asselton was probably the most serious accident case of the week. i 
He limped in to the hospital first on one leg and then on the other with the Solimi ty 
following story. — 

“Doctor when I woke up this morning my leg was sore, I pretty near believe | 
some one kicked me". On more careful questioning, Ralph admitted #a% he had a ae 
serious night mare that nighYand his sore leg was probably from fighting wild | 
cats during his dreams. Ls 
The Doctor. 


THE KANAWANA CIRcuSs & °£ ‘THURSDAY ? AUGUS? ‘THE THIRD. 


On Thursday the third, we held our amal circus. It turned out to be a fairly 
profitable buisiness,as the camp pulled in some fifty dollaree The Chief,and others 
who are connected with the treasury,were highly elated as this showed a marked 
improvement over last years proccedse Only one crate of oranges were given out, 
as the varius rackets and gyp machines were a greater swindle the ever. Iiir. Langille 
received over forty Sun kiwses;but rumour has it that he payed just about as many 
dollars for them,so he was'nt so hot after all. The biggest swindle of the 
vunch,of course was that handled by tent I2 of the juniors. They had a large tin,on 
which was painted measly little dots.fhese dots you had tocover with a coin. of 
course that was impossible, but the Chief bit as he went out after supper to make 
a grand cleanup and the leacthes clung to him till his last gasp. 

MISTER Clarke (only Doug,then ) had some weird contraptions down in the lower 
pavillion. A small group of the usual holiday rowdies teased the poor lad almost to 


tears, but this only added a little zest to the show so the customers finaly re@eived 


some amuse ment ,and perhaps theigr two ceng$s worth (if they payed ). 

The Reve Mre Prettie was in charge of the refresh meht stand. The refreshments 
were in the form of soft drinks and icecreame Did I say Ice cream This little stand 
pulled in more cash than any athere 

Varius other groups were the bean bag toss , hammering the nail, throwing the 
dart,the knife,and tossing the horse shoes,as well as Eric Wright's ball throwing 
rig, and the bowl of water which was set up by tent II of the Juniorse In this 
latter contraptéion, a small bowl was bounced around in a dish pense They gigled the 
the whole works just as you threw so,your coin would bounce out if you did happen 
to land it in the small bowl. 

Even though the dey was not quite up to scratch, the Circus was a great sucess 
and a good time was had by alle Including those already mentioned, and Mr. Devenny, 
MeySeeSZes Mr. Macdiarmid ,the Doctor, and other members of our revered staffe... 


Doug Macdonald 


Editor's Notes 


The camp Circus is an anual project carried on &nd promoted 
by the campers. Any moneys that come in through this circus are not 
credited to the camp treasury, but are used for some specé&l project 
or improvement. It has been suggested akxkkaxmxagzax that the 
proceeds of this circus be used to secure an other piano to be 
placed in the lodge next summer. 


WANT=-AD COLUMN OF THE GUEEN TRIANGLE. 


Wanted:= Definite informetion as to what is the attraction in Christieville 
that interests DougeMesDonald and Gordon Yulle 


Wanted:- A conveyance to Marois for Marois DaysApply:#o most all of the 
leaders and staff. 


Information Wanted:~ 
Does Miss Joh Morton,our camp washer consider a pair of pants as two 
items or one,also how about socks? 


For Sale:- One free pass to the Empress thestre.What offers? 


Barter Exchange:= I will exchenge a perfectly good radio(?) complete with its 
three tubes speaker and batteries for a good tube to take the place 
of one of its dud ones so I can Run it. 


Wemted fo Know:~ Just why Eric Wright and Clarke Merritt went to Lac Marois on 
Wednesday ; 


DOROTHY BIZ 


Dear Miss Dix: 
I have just seen your picture and I thought you looked familiar. 
You look just like Helen Black. 
Yours etc. 
Greg MacDiarmid. 


Dear Greggie. 
I look worse in white. 


Dear Miss Dixs P 
My idéai of a wife is one who can make good bread. 
Yours Hart Deveny. 


Dear Hart old Buys 
My ideal of a husband is one who can raise the dough in the 
hour of Knead. 
Dod. 


Dear Miss Dix. 
Some say Fredé Turfuss resembles his father, some sa, he tooks 
more like his Mother. Which side of the house do you think he most resembles? 
Yours . Doug MacDonald. - 


Dear Doug: 
The side with the bay window. 


Dear Miss Dix: 
Wy girl freind say that my overcoat is to loud. I can't afford 
to buy an other. What shall I do. 
Yours Truly. George Tully. 


Dear George: 
Wear a muffler. 
Dorithy Dix. 


Dear Miss Dix: 
I have just met the nicest girl in St.Sauveur. I have half 
a mind to kiss her. What do you advise? 
Yours, 
Gordon Yull. 


Dear Gordie. 
Tf you had a whole mind you would have doneit long ago. 
Yours, Dod. 


Dear Miss Dix. 

I am in great trouble. I have a girl freind in Montreal 
and I like her very much. Her name is Janet Cooper. Now Norman Richards has 
written her a letter, what shall I do?. 

Yours hopelessly, 
Lorne Jones. 
Lorne Old Boy: 
Why don't you write her a letter your self? 


Doddie. 


We Would Like To Know: 


Wether the docter is practising in the craftshop for some future major 


operation? 
How Tom Carnell spent his leave in Montreal? 
Wether Alf Shuet has found his long lost kitty yet? 


