Vol.47 | 3 Aad 
2 % Eos f 
\ 
_Kanawana 2 August 4,1940, 
Kanavana_ Melody by Frank Sherpe 


Kanawana's hills and lakes, its trees and sunset glows 

Its murmurs of the day and night in never ending flow; 

Its fireflies like low stars of night, its meal time din and stir; 

Its rains that spatter of tent flies and mosquitoes whining burs 

Its song and chatter, fun and games, its chapel mid the trees; 

Its moonlit shores, canoes and boats, and myriad sights like these}; 

And, best of all, its lasting friends that campers brought ang brings === 
Are like a melody of joy that Kanawana sings, 


LIEE SAVING 


One of the most useful classes in the camp is the Royal Life Saving. The Seniors 
have been very active in learning this art and all have benefited greatly. The 
experience gained through this study and practical knowledge is a great help to 
campers as well as future councillors, Any boy over twelve igs urged to attend the 
various life saving classes under Doug Fairbairn and Tom Hardwick, A number of 
Juniors are already enrolled in a class, Doc Fersaud and other staff members expect 
to join classes this weekeeees HOW ABOUT YOU? 


The aims and objects of the Royal Life Saving Class are < 

(1) To promote techniéal education in life saving and Resuscitation of the 
apparently drowned, 

(2) Tou stimulate camp opinion in favour of the general adoption of swimming and 
life saving as a definite branch of instruction for every campere 

(3) To encourage floating, diving, plunging and such other swimming arts as would 
be of assistance to a person endeavouring to save life, 


On Monday morning Doug Fairbairn will recompence the very popular NATURE STUDY CLASS. 
One of the most enthusiastic groups in camp this class has accomplished a great 

deal and the boys are very eager to start again, All those interested in the 
science of living matter are cordially invited to attend Doug’s classes, The first 
class will commence at 9,30 @eM. Mondaye 


Page 2e 


JUNIOR _NEWS 


“GETTA = On Friday afternoon the Junior Section held a boating canoeing regatta, A 
large group of enthusiastic campers turned out for the events, 


Those who 


turned in outstanding performances were Dan Durand, John Orr, Vince 
- Prichard and the Setlakwe brotherse 
BASEBALL= On Tuesday an exciting baseball game was played on the back ballficld,. ° 
Stephen Ellist team lost a hard fought game’to the team of Dick Pricher, 


John Weston was outstanding for the winners. 
A return match will be played as soon as possible. 


on the umpires 


The losers blamed the defeat 


SVWIMMING= During the last week the heats for the "across the lake" swim were held. 
Stan Christie won the first heat with a time of two minutes and thirty 


seconds. 
out Marcil Gregoire. 


John Birkett was seconds 
His time was two minutes and thirty-five seconds, 


In the second heat E. McCutcheon nosed 


The finals will be held this week and better time will be expected by the 


’ finalistse 


CAMPING = On Wednesday morning seven hardy Junior campers, Wally Little and Ed 
Raafleub braved the wilderness and forced their way through to "DEATH 


VALLEY" » 
general swime 


Here the boys feasted on berries before retuming in time for 


On Thursday a large section of Junior camp moved to SUNSET ROCK to spend the 


night. 
three and eight. 


Tents one, six and seven went across the lake, as well as parts of © 
Roaring fires were built and appetizing meals were cdoKede 


On Friday Terts three and eight went to SUNSET ROCK to spend the nights 
Tent four spent the same might at FAREWELL ROCK, 


The following letter has been found in the The Doctor was attending Bob Robinson the 


Junior Section, Will the writer please 
call at the office to claim it. 


My dear Oozy Ishy Mother:= 


When are you coming to see me? I am very 
homesicke Please bring me six or seven 
wetermelonse Do you think you could buy 
me some sky hooks:and rubber tent pegs? 
They don*t seem to have any in campe My 
leader (Don) is a dear fellow and oh so 
hendsomee What I like best about camp is 
when Ed Raaflaub and Earl Reid come round 
at night to tuck me in and kiss me good 
nighte Eds face is rough and scratchy, 
but Earl's is nice and soft. He goes 
around with all the girls at Guindon, 


Love & Kisses, 


Ae Me i 


other day when he caught a cold, 

"Did your teeth chatter when you felt the 
chill ¢oming over you?" asked the Doce 

"I don't know Doc", was the reply, they 
were lying on the table, 


Ea was sitting in the Ritz when Earl came 
in agd showed him a new hunting knife. 
He s@id he found it in the street, 

"Are you sure it was lost?"inquired Fd. 
"Of course it was lost", I saw a kid 
looking for it replied Earl, 


EDLORTAL STAFF 

Editor-in-Chief coccsccescenesselom Lawson 
Juvemile Editor eeecsesgeKeith Farquharson 
Tunior FditarecesseosesesugeJonn Summerby 
Busdagss “anager ceresse.e-Vallace Beaton 


™ 7 Se kn 
Cbevereverseresog ay de ia Ronde 


Page 3o 


JUVENILE _NE,'S. 


Boxing Ring Lompist28 

This S Week f Several young Juveniles, iooking 
ahead to a pugilistic career were seen to 
be battling their way to fame against 


equally enthvsiectic opponents. Under she 
capable guidance of Norm Browr the advance 
in fighting technique is expetsed to be 
very great and the large class a5 the 
first step tovards this srde 

Baseball League E Formed 

This week as the rest" it of meny loud 
clamors a baseball isagve hes Yeon formed 
in the youngest sec 4. on. with tires teams 
fighting for top ucecUls, we LOU vily 

J. Hammond and Bill Melrose «ie neadiug 
up the respective tetus ana ar beckec ty 
baseball enthusiaste frou every tert and 


cabin, This promising leesue is only 
enother featire or tle active Juvenile 
progreme¢ 


Off On Their O7mn 

Two tents in Tuveri section have ucw 
adopted @ new system of Jivings Uider 
this system they live clmost <ubirely on 
their own, ‘Where leader is responsibls 
only for patrol aad rorming dip and at 
their table. %therwise they are comp= 
letely free. This system was put tor» 
ward by the grougs concerned and is was 
decided that it be given a trye IG came 
about last Wednesday as e result of a 
strike by twenty boyse if this system 
works it will venefit both boys end 
leadersea 


Amstroag & Rolled 

Two Juvenile leaders ave nov on Quty 
teking out four day tikes and ons has 
been taken out elready, in the future 
when there is more freedo: it is hoped 
that these regular wesk—tey nikes will 
prove increasingly popular, 


The promotion of Tom iordwick vo Aquasie 
Director will be appreci:ted by cil the 
camperse Jt will be noted thes there are 
other former Juvenil«~ leaiers nov on tre 
staffe Let us hope that the futiee may 

be as prosperous for coming generationse 


7 SENIOR NEWS 


REGATTA= Seniors held a fast and furious 
regatta on Friday. Teems of 
rowers, canoers and swimmers re- 
presented each tent in the com- 
petitions Tent two won, with 
eighteen points; tcnt three was 
next with thirteen; tent one had 
ten points and tent four limped 
home with three points, Poole 
from tent two won the rowing 
singles, beating Besner and Savoye 
Besner and Maillet with Savoy as 
cox won the rowing doubles for 
tent threee Crombie and Gordon 
Smert of tent two won the canoe 
doublese Bill Reade won the free 
styie race in a starry splash of 
the best Seniors, Gordon Smart 
and his partner Ross Poole won 
the iife saving conteste Te 
Lavson was disqualified because 
hie partner sunk. If anybody 
finds the body flooting around 
please revort to Senior section} 
they ere somewhat worried be= 
cause the corpse had Bob Robinsons 
false teeth in theme 


If you can't find anybody in Senior 
section next week don't be alarmede The 
querantine has been lifted. They will be 
cut on three days hikes and canoe tripse 
The poys arc really keene 

The winning tent cf Senior section 
last weex wes Tent three. Tnder the 
leadership cof Fred Weiner this group 
worked as a unit throughout the whole 
week, It is hoped that there will be more 
tent competition in the Senior section, 
for the rest of the year. 


The otuer night Charlie Hazen fell 
asleep with the earphones still on. He 
woke up about two o'clock and bas had a 
bezzing in his ear ever sincee 


The othez night at Senior camp fire, 
Charades were a feature of the programee 
The gvyoff came when a couple of fellows 
got the Doe and pushed him two and froe 
The solution was Rockerfeller. 


Page 4e¢ 


WEEK ENTER 
( Unsensored. ) 


Things we would like to sce 25 Ke wan: 


Bob Robinson without is mcustache, 
Doc. Persaud to lead © cam) yell: 

Doug Fairbairn to fast for three dcySe 
Farky to go one dey without saying a worde 
Phe Chief in short pmtse 


Tom Lawson not asking eimpers to b- in a 
Saturday night programee 


Ed Raaflaubts rigitie fluttering from the 
flag polee 


A camera clube 
Girls 


wr gh be 


Girls 


Flit The Flea 


{Editor's note: Flit the Flea is our 
special correspondent who hops around 
from chest to chest end digs WZ €&he low- 
dow on certain people.) 

Don't believe it if you doa't wmi to, 


but while hiding in Mr. Smce's hairy bosom 
to get away from Jack Liday's fica sprayex. 


I heard a rumour pussed that Chief oo 
knee might put him cut of the runing - 
horse shoe pitching. Possibly the as 


'.gaid this = if so it i: to be hoped that 


. the Doe was not pulling his les. 


Then I hopped on to the mighty forest 
of Ernie Stabler and it took me several 
hours to find my way ovt. Ernie vas 
laughing at Sioop and Peeps latest dis- 
covery, Farky's letter, He was t21ling 
Tom Lawson about how Farkv skcuid have a 
nice time at camp. and not “er to hard. 


FLASH: E. McCUTCHECN Oil “He AC:.0SS 


THE LAKE Sv/Ihi. 


Through The Keyhole 
- by Snoope : 

Ye would like to know where Tommy (Snodke 
uns) Lawson went last week with two of 
Morin icignts' most beautiful belles, (He 
was suuted ia the back of a car very come 
fortat’y Letveen them when we Last saw 
= e 

Ve would like to know what is the real 

nae of the sweet young thing who writes 
"fay Keith (alis Farky) 3, and what she 
meant wien sI> said, "Itll never forget, 
Keith, how sweet you were that night at 
Foe es 4 

The Seniors sould like to know if they 
coul’ not helo the camp financially by 
sleepirz in during breakfast hours (Bless 

their Leayt: , 

Doug, (Pagr oru).would like to challenge 
an;)’. dn car> to a game of chess - = © 
hut uoat:chess nowe 


COMING. EVENTS 


Tuesdav 


— -—- — + 


All camp corn roaste 


Viednesday Just think girls we will be out 


of quarantinee 
Coming soon Minstrel show. 5 
Hobo nighte ae 
___Boxing tournment . 


STOP PRESS 


The Seniors beat the Chief and the Doc 
in a game of horseshoeSs The usual one 
siced uweturm match will be fought, 


Juvenile leaders beat Junior leaders 

Saturday night to the tune of nine to 
seven at baceball. Of course it was 

the Umpirets fault. 


Campers will be pleased to learn that 
* Roby Kidé is now well installed in his 
- new osition in N.D.G. Ye M. Ce AS 
that 


Guess Ross Seaman is an Uncles 


TIME 2.23 seconds, 


