- 


Vol II. No.4-. Saturday July 29th. 1933 


T HE GREEN +22 FE h Bie 


-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0 -0 -0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0- 


Today we are saying goodbye to Mr. W.A.Buckley and Dr.McKelvey. 


Every boy in camp is sorry to see thegegs men leave our staff. They both 
love boys and I ikmow they have made a real impression on many boys in camp. 


As Dr.McKelvey taxes up his duties at the Western Hospital, 
we wish him great success and as Mr. Buckley leaves the city for his vacation 
we sincerely hope he will have a very enjoyable holiday and real rest after 
his stremous activities in camp. 


We will all look forward to have these members of our staff 
back with us again next summer. 


WeHe Spearman. 
—0=0=0"0=0 =0=0=0=0=0-0=0=0=0=0=0— 


Strange Things Happen At Junior Camp. 


: Last night when the boys went to bed in dvunior camp, they 
fell asleep with the familiar voice of Mr. Buckley calling out the tents 
who where still talking. This morning when the rising bell was sounded, 
the get up cry was changed from the usual " You'tl Have To Hurray, Hurray, 
Hurray." to a new call "Little speed boys, little speed" as only 
Mr. MacDiarmid can say it. We are sure to Blad to have Mr. MacDiarmid with 
us again this summer and hope that he will have a very enjoyable summer. 
Later in this paper you will hear a few words from Mr. MacDianrmid himself. 


Acting Editor. 


"I'm glad I'm back at dear old Kanawana" 


That certainly was the ‘thought that was uppermost in the minds 


of the four of us who drove up in all the rain and storm last night, 
As soon as we had left Montreal behind us someone, Graham Pelley 


I think, started up the camp song and believe me we all joined in 


most heartily. From then on all the way up to Kamp we sang one after 
another all the songs that we used to sing last year and other years 
before that,"Marois}"The Nonsense Song", "Sea-Side", "Yo Triumphy", 
am a host of others were all sung, am believe me the harmony was 


“truly tremendous. 


And why was it that we sang like that,because none of us 
except perhaps Clarke Merritt, The Adagiog have voices that are 
worth writing home about? I think it must have been because the 
spirit of old Kanawana just got hild of us and we couldn't help 
it, It wes sheer joy at the thought of smendimg living again 
for a few weeks amengxthexrecksxandxtrees among the fellows at 
Kanawana. 

Believe me fellows it's a great pleasure to be back here again 
with you all, to meet all the old campers and to make so many new 
friends, I know of few places which give so much pleasure as a 
summer spent at Kanawana and I am indeed looking forward to an 
enjoyable and profitable month here among the hills of Kanawana, 


I am writing this in the Ritz or rather trying to write it, 
am I am full of very fine thoughts that I wish I could express 
and really do the thing that the editor wants me to do, but a bunch 
of fellows, Jimmie Mills, Ben Brooks, Max Exworth and RALPH 
WHITEHEAD and two or three others are making so much noise @ ting 
plums that they have just driven all these fine thoughts clear out 
of my head. 


So all I'LL say is that I am mighty glad to be back again and 
am looking forward to a grand and glorious month with you all, 


W. JuGrelts 


HIKE SECTION 


MUSICAL WALK 
GAZOO SOLO. 


All hikers had an interesting time on their hike to 
Christieville. Following an interesting walk of s8ven miles or so, during which 
everybody sang or wistled hike songs to the msic of a masterfully handled gazoo, 
the party went for camp-site for supper. 


Needless to say that sup er was enjoyed by all, after 
supper the hikers watched the sunset. As darkness fell, "Taps" was sung by 12 Juvenile 
voices, after which all retired for the evening. 


A record was set the next morning by the campers when they 
awoke at five oclock in the morning, due to the sun shining right in their faces. All- 
though 4t had been grke fairly cold during the night, every one slept well and the sun 
was welcomed as Nature's heater. 


The hikers returned at Kamp Kanawana about four thirty in the 
afternoon. Wednesday night when twelve tired Juveniles crawled in to bed, twelve tired 
but happy Juveniles looked back upon the events of the past two days with pleaseure and 
a sincere déstee that sometime in the future an other such interesting hike might fall 
to their lote 


—-0-0-0-0=0-0=-0=-0=0=-0= 


TUNIOR HIKB £0 FOURTBREEN LH8ELAND LAEB 


Some of the campers in the Junior section may have wondered 
what all the noise was about last Tuesday. As per usual, Snoop and Peep where on the 
job and the following is their report. 


We Found it, We found it. Burekal!{t!! The Juniors want 
on a overnight hixe.e They left camp at ten thirty in the morning after that time, the 
noise was not heard in camp, so we dicided to follow the hikers and found that they were 
the guilty ones. At about two oclock, the farmers and resident s of Shawbridge thought 
thatthe world had come to an end, but later they found out that it was only the Juniors 
passing through on their overnight hike. Dinner was enjoyed at Shawbridge and a general 
swim was held in the river. ‘The next stop was at Lake Echo which was the objective of 
their hike. Camping site was all prepared, when lo and behold their Gardian Angel 
had already made arrangements for the boys to pe it ores with Mrs Lewis. Needless to 
say that ximk the boys accepted the invitation witout hesitation. That meant no 
dish washing for the evening. Camp fire was enjoyed after and at about eleven thirty x 
the group retired for the evening. During the night it was very cold and damp so the boys 
decided to get up at five oclock( Junior Director please take Note, they can do it if they 
want to,"Little speed now, little speed"). Breakfast was enjoyed by all, the meal consisé= 
ted of beans. The rest of the day was spent at Lake “cho and at night Ralph Whitehead 

( Sensured bY"Chic tO. eePeeeReeeRReReREpESSEREEES . 


The next day at ten thirty the return journey began. The campers 


arrived back in - 
Kamp Kenawana at Four Thirty, right on time for swim which was a od th 
§00d thing 


Sl ae 


Hike Section Cont. 


JUVENILE HIKE £20 MORIN HIGH?S 


FRED TURFUSS OFFICIAL COOK 


The Juvenile Hike to Morin Hights was started on Tuesday 
morning. Christyville was reached at about 12.30 P.M. After a good dinner, thainks to 
General Turfuss, the party started of for Morin Hights which was reached fairly soon. 
Arter their general swim at Morin hights thy took the road to Lake Echoe Having 
walked about fifteen minutes, they pitched camp for the night. Everybody went to bed 
early and had a good sleep after which an exellent breakfast was enjoyed. The rest of 
the day was spent in the village where the boys met the Junior hikers under the direction 
of Ben Brooks and George. Tulley. All boys went to bed early again, only to wake up 
at 4.30 A.M. in a rain storm. All boys returned back to Kanawana before two olcok in 
theaé® afternoon. 

XESAXEUEE. 


-0-0-0-0-0-0-0 -0 -0=0=-0- 


THINGS WE WOULD LIKE T0 KNOW: 


Where Fred Turfus left the seven pounds he lost on his recent overnight hike? 
How George Tully likes the animal transport bussiness? 

How dumb Doug Clarke is now that he has lost his wisdom tooth? 

Why Wally is always late for flag reising? 

Why Eddie DeWit always goes to Piedmont? 

Why does Cyril King always wear a hat? 
WéeWould like to mow where Tulley goes on his day off? 


-0-0=0-0-0-0 -0-9-0-0-0-0- 


BASE BALL GAME WITH MAROTS. 


Last Friday the boys from Shawbridge played the Kamp Kanawana 
Base-ball team. Altough it rained hard, a very good game was played. Both 
teams were very strong, although the final score gave the game to Shawbridge. 
The final score was 24:20 for Shawbridge. 


-0-0-0-0=0-0-0=0=0=0=0=0-0= 


