Vol. 4, Noo7. August 4, 1938. 
THE GREEN TRIANGLE 


Once again the editorial dep't presents "The Green Triangle" 
for your approval, and we sincerely hope you will approve and also enjoy. 
But as we sated once before, you would gain a great deal more enjoyment 
from your newspaper if it represented some of your own work in other 
words, ifin it were published something you had writteh. So everyone 
Junior, Juvenile, Senior alike, rally around end hand in your contributions 
either at Tent 4 Juvenile or at the Wig Wam. 


2000 


This week witnessed the passing of July and the begimning 
of August; and with it came a new Doctér. Wednesday morning the camp bid 
a fond farewell to Dr. Weaver, who goes to new duties at the General Hospital, 
and Wednesday at supper time a new face appeared at the Staff Table - 
Dr. Kenneth Hardley. He's a McGill man, so now there's at least one 
fellow in camp who can yell the old MeGill yell.and sing the old McGill 
songs. We'll have to get him to do both at dinner some daye 


2000 


Last Sunday morning Mr. H. d. Cross, a fompr Kanawana Chief, 
addressed the gamp assembled in chapel. Tt seemed just like old times to 
have Mr. Cross back with us; perhaps we shall see him again, since he and 
his family are t present summering at Marois. 


000 


j This weekend some forty campers and leaders left Kanawana for 
perhaps the last time until next year. In their place there arrived some 
twenty now ones. Welcome, fellows, and we know you will find it no trouble 
at all to fill the place of the two who have left for each one who has come ine 


000 


Notice From The Kitchen Staff. 


Recently an increasing number of dirty dis hes have been left 
by the sinks which have then had to be washed by our already overworked 
kitchen staff. Notice is hereby given that The Kanawana snoop has been 
sidced unto their trail of such maldoers; so look gut 


000 


Annual 411 Camp Ragatta. 


Thursday afternoon was the day set aside for the annual all-camp 
regatta, which this year seemed to attract more participants and moreout-of-camp 
Spectators than wver before. Mme whole girls’ section of Camp Beesis was 
there 
there, which made it rather pleasant for all concerned and especially the starte 
rs who seemei to camp down around Farewell Rock most ofthe af trenoon. 


A successful program was run off in short order, including 
everything froma slow man's race to a Topsy-Turvy event. At the close of 
the afternoon these aggregate winners wrer announced: 

Senuor, Bob Bennet with 24 points 

Junicr Bryce Chatau with 16 points. 
Juvenile Harold Meyer with 11. 


000 
Thiw afternoon the Senior Section bied itself off to partake in th 
Marois Ragatta. 4 good time was had by all - even though the boys only 
managed to place in a cou-le of events. 


-000- 


Dear iiss Dix, 
My girl ond I have just had « quarrel. geen 
velzeves in in elolution and that men were mde from konkeys. You don't 
believe she was right, do you? 

Howie Iangille. 
Dear Mr. Iangoille, 


Tt 10 for move likely that woman mde We first monkey cut 


of nan. : 


Dear Miss Dix, 
Recently on a trip to arts I saw some leaders uu 
with some girlse Don't you think they are bad eggs? 


: Chief MacDiarmid. 
No-<<----—- they are too fresh. 


My gixl doesn’t like the cut of my ponte and so E mst either 
& without her or without them. What should I do? 


: Art Wilkinsos. 


Dear Art, : ; 
A man can go a lot of places without his wife. 


: Dear Miss Dix, 


C : 
dered, but 1 don't uon how she would feel about — a es 
it r tried to kies you? 


Daer MissDix, 
When we have visito rs of the opposite sex, why must they be 
of advanced age? Why can't a few younger girls come to visit us? . 


Perplexedly yours, 
Lorne Hamiltone 


Dear Lorne, 
What do you expect for $6.50 per week? 


000 


Aura Keyhole, by Snoope 


This week Clarke Merrit tired of answering kid's questi took 
in the hospital. Likewise Tom Havvey and the sees a — 5 gis 


They*ve got John at last = every night now he dons his b 
est Sunday 
3 off to St. Sauveur, not returning tothe wee smill panes. Bhd 
w do you expect to keep on filling our sugarbowls if you keep, such late hours? 


And as for Doug Rei accord 
he's just ducky. sands ing to the Juveniles the Marois girlsthink 


Pelly and Paul are back in camp, too, after the 
6 ir four days leave; and 
they certainly are perky. I think they must heve morethan enjoyed + Sane 


Ken Clarke tried hard to have the Juv ior Hike go to Otoreke instead 
of to 14 Island. 


Why is Howie Langoilie staying over at Marois to-nught? 

And nov Cherie Carmichael has ohne the ranke of the Ixelted Nursemiida, and 
not very exaltod at that. 

Cen those seni rs handle war canoes$ They were tipped three times in 


to-day's regatta at Marois. 


