er 


ane ~ 
ft ae ; 
eer 
Oe NS, 
om ae te moa: 
: = < ee is 


Kamp ia 


geme of baseball. 


f 


al 


AY 


Se 


— 


y 
a 


ne wand 


EN ES RAE 


ate en ee a a a ie 


SENIORS CRUSH STAFF 12-5 


oe 


On Saturday night July 2, the seniors defeated the staff 12-3 in a thrilling 


~ 


<a) 


™, 
ad 


“ 


———— 


uN 


The steff entered the ball-field single file, 
marching to the tune of « harmonica duet, and 
weering the oddest millinery creations that ever 
came out of Paris. The chief, in particular, 
was wesring a hat that all but ceused a riot 
when he errived on the bell-field. 

There was never a dull moment in the geme, and 
the crowd: were laid.in. the aisles by the antics 
of umbdire ‘Tom Best aud vy the chief's bat-swinging 
between strikes. : oer 

At first the teams seemed, to be pretty evenly 
matched, but efter 4 couple’ of gruelling innings, 


the seniors brought up e&: lead. of nine runs end proved themselves victors. 


---00000--- 


AMATEUR NIGHT IS SZ. Si TION ae 


On Saturdey nicht after the ball game, there took place in the lodge an 
‘emateur hour, -styled-sfter. Ma jor Bowes' famoug show of. the: same name... 


It proved to be quite popular, and will probably 


-be-repeated-in the near-future. : : 
The hit of the show seemed to be Mr. Cartier's 


clever impersonuetion of the Major, end Mr. Smith's 
part as Timmy Vallingtoa was also convincing. 


“Phil Simpson, who séng to his own guiter accomp- 


eniment, wes the star of the show, being the 


‘only amateur called beck for an encore. 


The honour city wee St. Lanbert, end that city 
got e sévere' ridtng thet night, all in fun, of 
COUTSS. 

96-52 talents 


i 
wo a hal \ cr Ot Dre , ¢ 
Ie INETCSV 2 


Ww, and 
sat Rivard, 


As 


; ry 307 “ellenger, 
pO ae cul Lebocew, Sernara, Leslis, ‘Aubrey 


Saturday, July 9.19358 Poets 


EDITORIAL STAFF 
Editors: Morrey Cross.& Rigo Pelletier 
Art Editor: Robert. LeMoyne t 
Circulation Manager: Douglas Dilks 


-~00000-- ore 


BuEEY BREAKFLST PROVES POPULAR 


The camp received with much enthusiasm the ennouncement of. the Buffet 
Breakfast for Thursday morning. On that day, at the time wen leaders are 
usually seen forcing unwilling campers out of bed 


Poe and down to the dock for a wash, silence reigned 
es Py supreme except for occasional resounding ‘snores which 
ya. = See Te shook the tents in Seniox Section. 
a =). { en . About half-past eight--an hour after the normal 
a EV ea rising time~-a few campers could be seen stregeling 
-\E™ aks aN over to the dining hall to gorge thems< lyés on the 
RN, ; plentiful supolies. Towards ten ofclock, the maj- 
iy, ree _ ority arrived after a pleasant nap of about eleven 
NG hours. Rumour has it that Ron Tutill and Bob Smith 


consumed a total of three boxes of corn flakes, this 
fact perhans explaining their appsrent light appetite at dinner the same day, 
an: of course occasioning John Pearson's good {?) humour. 


--000000-=- 


Chief Says. .svessue 


To-day te start off on our third wees in cemp. This hes been one of the 
best yecrs in our experience. je heve & hapoy bunch and a healthy one...Let's 
keev it that wey. 

For neny yeers Kanerene hes meant e great decl to thousands of boys. One 


old cenper, just the other dey »rote from Toronto, “If. I am in Montreél this summer,” 


I shall certainly pey a visit to the spot that hes contributed so freely to my 
"Book of Vemories.'" The writer camped here every year frou 1914 till 1930. 

This is what Kanewane does....It gives us memories which lest on through 
the years. May our “emories elvays be pleesant onest Let us have lots of fun, 
but meke it clean, end harmful to no one. Let*us vley herd, end work hard, with - 
all thet’s in us. And let us find time each day for ae few moments off by ourselves 
when wo cen take stoek to make sure that we are meking our comp experience count 
for the most. 

Let us continue as we have been going end we will make 1938 the most worth- 
while yesr in Kanewana's history. 


DEDICATION 
This-issue o: the CREE TRIUNGL: is resnectfully Gediceted to Tock Liddy, 
Riis Dovcan, cad Simo K q 


AG Bea po fa ge pe reeks “pvene campers who throuvh illness. 


Soe ee a 
13 ¥ wk 


—} 


. 


We Wonder Whyececees eid 
It tock six junior leaders to take a hike to Marois. 


Basil Burgess and Fred Fidkin carried a canoe over to Lake Beecsies last night. 


Henry Shrivell left the Casa Loma off the printed form which he printed for tent in- 
spection. 


John Pearson was a trifle annoyed to find that the camp had consumed over 30 boxes 
of corn flakes the morning of the buffet breakfast....e. It seems that the campers 
raquire leadérs to prevent them from making hogs of themselves , and vice versa. 


Hebb bbbe 


The following is a former Kanawana yell, which is very effective when shouted 
rapidly...-Let's all try to learn it:~- 


Yo triumphy, yo triumphy, (sung slowly) 

Hobben slobben rebegqca le-am, 

De whoop, de whoop, de shol-de~vere, 

De boom de rye, de hi-de-pock, 

Hoonica heenica, whack-de-whack, 

Hoh dob de bowl: de barra 

Con slob de hol dobra, 
KANAWANA...rahttt 


LEAEEL EEE 
OFFICERS OF CAMP COUNCIL ELECTED 


At a meeting of the all camp council, the following were elected to office: 


President: Norm Wallace. 
Vice-President: Ken Smith. 
Secretary: Ian Fraser. 
Dater: Benny Leslie. 


PALEAPEH 
& THOUGHT FOR THE WERK 


We cantt all play a winning game; 
Someone is sure to lose; 
Yet we can play so that our name 
No one may dare accuse. 
That when the Master Referee 
Scores against our name; 
It won't be whether we won or lost, 
But how we played the game. 

--J. B. Downie. 


: ] 
MS! (Doakch for The Rize Contest nex’ weers 


