THE @RRESN TRA 4A LS 
@-@-@-@-@-@-@-@-@-@-@-@-@-@-@-@-@-€-@-@-@-@-0-G-@-@-G-@ 


As The First issue of the Green Triangle makes its appearance I want to 
suggest that we as members of this camp get behind the editors and work hard 
to make the paper a great success. A true camp spirit is the thing we want 
to develope. 

What is this thing called "Camp Spirit"? You know and I know. It is the thing 
that welds us together, the feeling which makes us enjoy disagreeable tasks when 
we would like to grumble; it makes us take pride in our camp, in our work and 
in our play. 

Tt grows around the Camp Fire as we sing our camp songs, as we swing 
along the roads on our hikes, shoulder to shoulder. 

Living together for a few weeks as we do each summer in God's great 
Out Of Doors, presents to us the opportunity of sharing in this great thing 
called "Camp Spirit". 

It is the sincere wish of the "Chief" that?fne"Green Triangle" goes 
forward it will report the doings at KANAWANA at such a splend&d manner that 
we will be able to again live over the day lived in camp even though it be the 
middle of winter with the snow piled high. 

May all the boys who have left camp, be better able to carry on their 
City Duties, because tney have been here. 


W.H.S. 


SOCIAL COLUMN 


_ Friday night a splended farewell programme was held for the juniors under 
the ~~ of the Junior Leaders. After a sing-song led by Norman Thom, Mr. 
Buckley adressed the boys on camp sanitation and camp freidships. 

_ The agony section of the programme was @ story by Nurse Bess. The big 
‘surprise of the evening were the refreshments. Along with numerous other 
delicacies, ice cream and cake proved the feature item. 

This ended another successful evening with the camp motto "Shoot Straight 
and hit tne mark". 


SPORT SECTION. 
Juvenile Baseball game ends in a rumpus. Cadillacs defeat Auburns by umpires / 
decision. Last nigut vue sinal game between Cadillacs and Auburns before a 


good sized crowd. This game showed the necessity of having-two umpires at & 
final game. = 

It was growing dark and the seventh inning was near ended, the store 
tied at 12-12. Cadillacs had three men on basée and a strong batter up and 
two out. When suddenly one man was ordered from the field and then the Auburns 
threw in the spunge. 

It then appeares that the spirits of umpire Tom Cornell also darkened 
and he emidiately awarded the game to Cadillacs. Tom had a hard job all evening 
and although he gave his best the two teams questined his déscisions at all 
timess It was diciedly unsportsman-like and after the stress #ke on good 
Sportmans-ship at Chapel services this week we feel that it should indeed ~ 
prought. to the attention of the campers that we are at Kanawqna to lear 
sportsman=Like way of going about Christianety and A*hmletics. 

' The Cadillacs under the able leadership ~f Derick Croscey 
to win as they played hard, and were the better sportamane The Aub 
led by Grant "Red" Forest. 


ate 


age iors had a rough exciting game of floor Hocky in the lower Pavilion 
Friday artBPnson. Two teams were chosen, Captained by Abie Garringer and Don 
Williams. Abie Garringer's Team won the desision 12-8; Gus Gunnel prooving to 
be the star, scoring nine goals. 
The Juniors took part in an interesting aquatic meet on Thursdaye Pete 
Charlton swam away from the others to come in first in the majority of races. 
The umpire of the diving event, namely John "Scotty" Kiell seemed to be 
in Dutch with the crowd, but the féerst three places were certainly taken by 
the most deserving of them. 


One Thursday a party from Senior camp went By truck to Mont Tremblant, 
which is approximately 50 miles from here. They climed the mountain which 
is said to be the highest mountain this side of the Rockies. Otherwise the 
Senior section seemed dead and nothing much was heard from that past of the 
Camp. 

The Senior Ping-Pong tournament is progressing and it alone seems to be 
keeping that section alive. The winner between Bert Town and Shan Dunn will 
play Doc. fot the Championship. 


The Junior leaders Baseball team won an exciting game from the Senior team 
last Saturday and they challenged the rest of the Camp to a game tonight. The 
challenge was accepted on behalf of the camp by Reg. Kelly who prommised "To 
raise a team" The report of this game will be read later. 

After Thursday night we declare theYokes on Abie Garringer. 


Jimmy Mills and his weak (spelt w-e-a-k ) -end stuff is improving and 


durigg the week he can be seen rehearsing for the week-end when he "Strutts* —— 


his tuff" 


Our final thought to the campers this week is "Remember the ten command- 
ments of a True Sportz and ‘Honour the game thou playest} for he who playeth 
the game straight and hard, wins, though he looses’ "« 


J. RM. 


This is the first zxkms issue of the Green Triangle and I wish to take 
this opportunity of thanking the Editors of the various departmants for their 
co-operation and assistence. I sincerely hope that the paper meets with the 
approval of the campers and that in the future the camp will back the editorkal 
staff by sending in plenty of suggestions, for which 4 box will be place in the 
dining pavillion and in closing may I suggest that our motto for the paper bes 
"Sach Issue Better Bhan the Previous Issue"e 

HeM. 


WE WOULD LIKE TO KNOW: 


Why John Kiell always hikes to D'Arcie McGee and Ed. Dewitt to 
StsSaveur? 


Why the Doctor went to Montreal over the week-end and missed his train 
coming back to camp? A 


Why Norman Thom missed his dinner on Sunday and was not hungry at 


Suppertime? ar 
Why Walter Jeffers wore his glasses oF Sunday? 


~~ 


&-3- 


Who were the boys that hiked to the Junior League Camp on Sunday Evening? 


If it was the first time that the Seniors ever walked back from a 
canoe trip? 


Why certain Juvenile leaders portage canoes to Becsis? 

What happend to Kelly's pants? 

pi Mr. Buckley goes to Montreal so often, and misses his train coming 
back to camp? 

Why chief likes hiking after lights-out? 

Why the two girls sat at the staff table last mkeki? Sunday? 

If Ralph Allen always dives by special request? 


If Frank Clarke is still looking for the key to the oven by request 
of the Chef? bs 


Who was the Blonde that was seen with D.Clarke outside St:Sauveur? 
What Chief and nage in Shawbridge? Play golf or pool? 
Tf Bob Kneeland found dear hunting good? atm Marois. 


SPECIAL NOTICE 


Warning to all Malefactors: 
"The man at the little window has engaged the services of Snoop and 
Peep to track down all fellows who turn in dirty dishes. To date, thirteen 
of these rascals have already been summarily dealth with. Like rogues take 
warning. 
Singed "The men at the little Window". 


Wanted: 
A new girl friend, about 5 feet 4 inches tall and fairly slim. 
: Apply to Stan. Egar. 


Wanteds 
Free transportation to St:Sauveur weekly. 
Apply to Tom Cornell and Ralph Allen. 


Wanted: 
A staff canoe for Sunday afternoon. See Frank Clarke: ~ 


Wante ds 
More Graft for the Graft Shop. See Preston Robb. 


TOMORROWS SAYINGS: 


A person can sing in any flat if he has the right key. 
WeA.Buckley- 


-4- 


BPORTHY Deze’ 6 


ADVISE TO THE LOVE Ha@wen 
LORN 
Dear Dorthy Dix: 
My best pal and I go to St:Sauveur to see two mu-cha chas. He 
always runs off with the Blonde and leaves me with the Brunettex. Is this fair? 
Yours Anxiously, ' 
Tommy Cornell. 


Answer, Fair to him, Brunette to you. 


Dear Dorothy Old Girls 
Here I am in trouble again and coming to you for advise. My best 
fra@ind and I go toSt:Sauveur des Monts to see two girls. He always takes the 
nice looking brunette and leaves the Blonde, Is that right?. 
Gincerely yours 
Answers All right for him, but you'r left. Ralph Alien. 


Mis Dixs 
I am dark,gtrong, and handsome and posses everything a young girl could 
desire, yet no young girl will go out with me. What can the matter be? 
Perplexedly yours 
Answer: Even your best would'nt tell,you that. Bob Gibson 


Dear Miss Dix: 

Who is that tall, strong well built man at Kamp Kanawana who has such a 
wonderful figure. I met him in the dark the other night at Marois and how he 
can kiss. TI would like to know, bd fe TS hately seers 


Answers So would I. ~Aiiee Phyliss 


Dear Dots : 
I'm wasting away, pining for-- - - well I'll give you three guesses; an 
my mother thinks I'm a man. She hasn't written for two days and I'm afraad 
ithe + should I do? 
she has lost fait What s Sinsthy Disple- 


Answer: Stay away from a certain house at Maroise 


