One more the Green Triangle mekes its appearance efor your apporoval we hope’ 
that it meets with as favourable reception as it has in the past few weeks. We 
regret to announce however that this week the contribution trom indavidual campers 
has been less than the previous week an in fact the smallest amount of individual 
literary effort yet turnee inew We sincerely hope that the new campers to whom we 
bid welcome will put forth a bigger effort this coming week.to help boost our camp 
paper. Come on now feelows get behind the editorial staff and let us have plenty 
of contributions, and we will do our part by putting out for your benifit the biggest 
and best issue of the Green Triangle that has yet been published.» 

H.Wellfe 


JUNIOR HIKES 
-@-O-O-C-O OOO CEEO-OE 


IN TO THE HEART OF THE BACK WOODS. 


The party set out.in a northk, north-east direction from the Back Ball field. 
We found it rather hard walking through the woods, but we soon came to a marsh and 
found a trail which we followed until we came to a hard dry strech of ground which 
was covered with ferns. 

Here we Suumat took to the woods agein and walked a long way with Clarke Merbit 
who was continually calling for some one to getin front or to hurry up. We suddehly 
came to a lake and Pete Charlton saw a blue Harron flying over the lake. Suddenly 
behind us we heard a crashing and found "Sandy" had been stung by bees. We soon 
found the hive and bombarded it, oniy to ickly take our heels. 

Wesley Walton found a species of yel owish fungi while we were walking around h 
the lake in a West-North-West direction. Walking was difficult owing to the marshy 
nature of the ground. We next discoverd a streem which proved to be the outlet 
of the lake. 

We then took our barings and took to the woods again. Finely comeing out in 
to a large pasturefield where timble berries were abundant. Climing the neighbouring 
hill we found ourselves overlooking three farms climing down an alomost verticlek 
cliff we reached a small leke at the bottom, after many hairraising falls, by Jimmy 
Hamilton. 

We then followed the shore of the lake and Pete Charlton saw a ground Hog. 
Then going North West we reached a fa m where we had a.drink. : 

Next we folocwed the road for a way, then turned of and proceeded south wést 
to Bacsis, but on topping a hill we discovered an other lake west of us and bamkdaxkx 
dicided bb eat there. 

After luch we again started for Bacsis. On the trail, Pete Charlton saw 
a Partridge while Wesley Walton discovered a skunk. We then struck the Bacsis trail 
and soon arrived back at camp.to end a very enjoyable exploration trip. 


Wesley Walton. 
Hike to Morin Hights. > 


Seven boys and a leader started out shobtly after ten A.M. for the weekly hike/ 
This time the group was seeking its adventure in the direction of Morin Hights. Te 
Fred Cooper who had hiked this way before was out leading spirit. Our confidence 
in him was great, but greater was the disappointment when our leading spirit led 
us @n to the road of distruc$ian. We soon however recovered the right trail and Fred 
again led the party. This time we had struck a trail which was marked off by white 
arrowse Our half-way stop was at 4 smell store where we had some refreshments. F 
Cooper tried to get his directions from a gentleman who, after Fred had talked to__ 
him for several minutes motioned to his mouht and ear, indicating that he was def 
and dumb. Our hike was reassumed and after walxing for some time we met two 
Woochachas on horseback. Arriving at Worin Hights we lunched at the rearest store. 


\ 


o 


— 


= 2- 


Fred @ooper rushed through his lunch and then asked for an half-hours leave. 
Shortly afterwards Fred was riding by on a horse. Perhaps it was to meet the two 
Moochachas whom we had seen earlier on our trip. After his return we started of 
for "Home". When about two miles were behind our backs the advance party was heard 
shouting. The others joined them on the coubbe. Luck seemed to with us when Jack 
Cameron offored to drive us as far as St:Sauveur rd... This ride was doubly enjoyed 
by Guy Bowen who had had rather a hard time keeping up with the party, this being 
his first hike since his accident. We were glad however to have him with us and 
this time we had the pleasure of bringing him pack unharmed. W 

While passing iarmhouses and D'arcy licGee Camp the hikers united in the Kanawana 
Yell. We were greated by several fair-ladies and sometimes we wished that we 
were hiking insted of riding. At the crossing of the St:Sauveur rd. we met sveral 
Juveniles who joined us in our Limousine. We arrived back at Camp afkex shortly 
after three oclock when a gocd rest and a general swim was enjoyed by all. We were 
all of the same opinion that this hikewas one to be kept as a pleasant memory to 
those members of the party who are leaving this weekend. 

H.Van Every. 


Three Day Hike To Lake icho. 


After watching the baseball game at Shawbridge on Wednesday,four of Kanawana's 
bigger and better campers under the leadership of Jack Millar continued their. hike 
along the highway to Lesage where they turned off to go to Lake EchoeLate in the 
afternoon they went to get some milk at a farm and were given 4 quart by the generous 
farmer. 

Then they made a very appetizing meal in a fire-place between two huge rocks 
and then made a bed of spruce and cedar boughs.A cold spring was found nearby, by 
Colambus McCombe,and after a refreshing wash the weary hikers went to bed. 

Up early the next norning and having had a good breakfast,the Kanawanians 
hit the trail once more,arriving at Lake Echo about eleven o'clock.Here the hikers 
were very fortunate in having a motor-boat ride around the lake. 

Camp was made in the same place as the previous night and again theyturned in 
early and this time slept untill a late hour.fhe next day,Friday,rain rather damp= 
ened the spirit of the travellers and they were forced to fry their sausages in the 
rain mid-way between Shawbridge and Lac Guindon.The hikers arrived back at 
Kanawana about four o'clock and everybody agrecd that they had spent a good three 
days. 


SATURDAY NIGHT SHOW 


The usual Saturday night entertainment began with a lively singesong foliowed 
by a skit by David Motton and Buddy Gilbert. After this Preston Robb gave a clever 
rendering of a Scotchman's act. : ; uF 

sin Gawaocic took the part of an assistant minister of a village Parish, giving 
several minutes of halarious monologue. Following this Jim Mills delivered sndinters 
resting talk on Bird lore.. This comprised the educational section of the evening a 
and was greatly enjoyed by all. 

At this time the weekly reading of the Green Triangle took place. Plenty of 
matirial was gathered together and delivered by Jack IMiller*s melodious voices 
comprised one of the main features of the evening. ; 

The entertainment closed with an other epposode of them demon detectives Snoop 
and Peep. This concluded the mein features of the evening after which the nailwe 
given out, 

K.C.Be 


THE CIRCUS. 


The circus was a day od days for all. From as financial point of few it was 
a tremendous success,sthe tatal profit was 925.45. 


—_— ——~- 


=3~ 


: The Jumeniles probably had the biggest crash of all with their tremendous trillers 
which had the only casuality, who was Joe furgesson, with a badly cut finger. 

The side shows were numerous and varied. The cargame making the most with $7.02. 
Other boots were the Green Triangle throwing rings, throwing darts, putting game, 
fortune telling, pin-pong game, Smash the Balloon and several other intresting games. 
During swim period the greasy pole ond the covered shute were operated. These were 
only small gyps but the seniors had thr biggest of all with their house of wonders, 
which will be mentioned later in this issue. Chief became a kid again and went 
around and encouraged everybody. 


F.Turfuse 


KANAWANA WINS BASHBALL SERIES W ITH SHAWBR IDGE 
WINS SECOND GAME 12-11-. 
Fine relief pitching by McNaughton. 


An other close game was played Wednesday at the Shawbridge Boy's Farm when 
the Kanawanians won the cup for the first time sinceit was donated in 1921. Manager 
Reg. Kelly deserves to be congratulated on the fine way he coached the team along. 
The game opened with stober pitching for Kanawana and it was only in the first 
inning that he got in to @ifficulties, allowing four runs. In the second inning 
Senawana came to and scored five runs and the game was very close there after, 
The score at the end of the 8th inning being eleven all. In the first half of the 
9th Kanawana scored one run and then held the Shawbridge at.bay till the end. Mike 
McNaughton relieved Milton Stober midway through the game in a desparate srtive 
to win end sucessfully pitched the game to @ conclasion. Ha 

The Seniors defeated Marois at baseball 13 - 5 on Thursday at Kanawana. 


JUNIOR SPORTS 


There was an interesting programme on Friday afternoon when the Juniors followed 
Ed Dewitt around the camp of the high-dive down the shute and through many gymnastic 
manosvres . This was followed by a relay race accross the lake back to the raft, 
in to shore, then to the shute, to the highdive and thence to the crabb. 

The Juniors also had an atheletic meet which also went over great. it ine 
cluded such quiet and exciting events as Loud Laugh, and shoe race. 


Jack Miller. 


JUVENILE §$P ORS T. 


This week was Olympic week in Juvenile Camp. Bach tent was named after a : 
country- 8 of them competing. The compotition was keen al during the weeks Baseball 
and Volleyball games, a swimming meet, a medley relay race, and an atheletic meet 
all being taken part ine T : 

The final results showed Canada leading Ireland by one point, with Frances japan 
UsSeAe, Finland, Italy, and Great Brtitain following in the order named. This afternoon 
the Juveniles took part in a seafight and water-baseball. A victor-ious team in 
the sea-fight composed of nine fellows were defeated in @ struggle against two 


counselors. 
4 Tse 


GO0UNCIG RING. 


On Thursday night, the braves of the tribe of Kenawana assembled in their rebuilt 


— 


-4= 


Council ring. 

First erected some twelfe or 15 years ago, the present council ring was enlagged 
and rebuilt in 1928 under Karol Perry. This year it was considdered advisable to 
rebuilt it completely with stronger foundations, For the past month some of the leaders 
heade by Jim Carnegie have worke steadely on this project. The job was hard at times, 
hamper d by rain and other activities, but the appearance of the ring on Thursday night 
certainly showed that a better council ring had risen out of the runes of the olderone, 
thanks to the Carnegie Construction Co. 

The high lights of the evening were numurous and varieds The firelighter 
Dasil Burgess had to be extuinguised by Big Cheese McDairmaid, without the aid 6f 
a tobalizer machine, Tally keeper Dewitt had much trouble figuring out the number 
of scalps brought in by some raiding Seniors who arrived late. Then fodlowing some 
appriciative comment, the Chief presented Feathers Of Honour to Jim and Those Who kad 
toiled on the council ring. This was a wel deserved reward for the fellows who had 
spemt so much time and energy on the outstanding project of the year 
The more strenuo&s.part of the evening was featured by a Senior Human Tugg Of 
War, won efter much exurtion by Tully's Rippling team. 

During the period for suggestions, the cookhouse was subjected to some destructive 
criticism by Harris and Turfus, with sundry allus&ons to the disappearence of one 
Pagé's horses and, it was rumored, some discarded Harness. It must be a certain 
taste that Lingers. 

The traditional Omaha tribal prayer brought to 2 close an evening that will linger 
iong as an other happy rememprancee of the ggod times at camp. 

H.Dennis. 


THE HOUSE OF WONDERS. 


Wonderful! Amazing’ Enchanting: Oh.Yeah?. 

The greatly advertised House Of Wonders which arrived in Kanawana last 
Tuesday was indeed a wonder. It was a wonder they got away with it. 

Uowever the senor tent who so succesfully put this side show on deperve credit 
for tne ingenious divises they had arranged. 

While waiting for the show, one could have a cartoon and a portrait done which 
really did resemple the suvject. Then the show com cuvea and the giggling professor 
Tyanofullitch and his colleague presented some phooney (Funng)cartd tricks 

Next a farcical a& array of pillars of ancient Greece, a swimming match between 
MeGill and Yale, the bell of Kanawana, a dark'El' from the sunngx south and numerous 
others, were presented for our fastley déminishing humour. 

One feature of the show was the costume worn by the Master Of Ceremonies and 
we hope that his mother will not miss the night shirt. 

Jack Miller» 


SCANDAL 


Up to date we have been unable to get anything on the editor, so we have come 
the the conclusion that he must be lesding a fairly descent life. X#XxaIa 


ae 
WE WOULD LIKE TO KNO We 


A 
Were Tom Lancaster is going after the Show? 


Who the certain young lady by the name of Dirt is, that Phillip Harris is writing too. 
‘his Hasbeen going on for some timee Beep and Snoop had better be warned, 


Where Herb. Furness disappea red to on Thursdey night? 


How much Doug. Clarke paid for his Been Shave? 


t 
on 
‘ 


The name of the woman Heb Furness goes to see ut Guindon? 


Where Jim Carnegie went at Marois on Friday? 

Why Chef Watson went to St:Sauveur last nicht? 

Why Harvey Marshal end Tommy Cornell are practising diving? 

Where did Gordy Yull and Presty Rob Goe toe last Sunday Evening? 

Why did Jim Carnegie wer to loose the trail around Junior League Camp on Friday? 
Why did Herb Furnes look so tired after his fourdays leave? 


Why Ralph Allen hasn't been down to the little Grey House at St:Sauveur Lately? 


DOROTHY DIX'S ADVISE TO THE LOVE LORNE 


Dear Miss Dix: 
I knoe an awfully nice gitl who has just got engaged to one of the s illiest 
asses I have ever seen? What made her get engaged to that poor fool? 


Ypurs In wonder, Abie Gerringer. 


Dear Mr. Gerringer: 
The poorfool did . 
; D.Dire 
Dear Miss Dix: a= 
My girl won't go out with me because T eat meat. She is a vegetarian and 
she says meat is unhealthy. I know she is wrong, because all my ancesters eat meat. 
Yours Geo. Tully. 


Dear George: 
Well, all your ancesters are dead, aren't they?. 3: 
Dod Dix. 


Dear Dots 
It has been annoying me very much the way some of bur leaders behave when 
they go down to St:Sauveur. They seem to forcet that they are little gentleman. 
Wouldn't their behaviour just make you speechless? 
Yours Truly, 
Stan Hager. 


Dear Stan: 
No I never get that mad. Remember I am a woman. 
D.Dix. 


Dear Miss Dix: 
T have been so fascinated by the coldblooded beauty of one ofthe leaters 
at Kamp Kanawana, I think his name is Gordy Yull. But why has he such a sad look in 
his face2 3 : = 
Yours Sincery A Junior League Girl. 


. an 
4 ae 


Dear Junior League Girl: ; se 
"probably he is sad because it is his face. . zed 
D.»DIX it 


-6=< 


Dear Miss Dix: 
Is kissing unhealthy? 
Yours in Scientific Spirit, 
Graig McDairmed. 


Dear Graig: 
I do not know, I have never been sick. 
Dot Dix. 


Dear Dorothy Dix: 
f I am an Amarican.What strikes me most about your wonderful country 
are your perfe ctly marnelous policeman. JT think it is surprising how thay candam 
the flow of traffic. . ‘ 
Yours admiringly, 
Doc. Coolglazer. 


Dear Docs 
You should hear our taxie drivers. 
DeDixs 


Dear liiss Dig: 


Don't you think the greatest satisfaction on life is narrying the 
girl you want. r 

Sincerely 

Ed, Dewitt. 


Dear Alphonse: 
Not have as mueh as marrying the girl some one else wants. 


OE ——— 


