reer 


Again it gives us the greatest pleasure submit for your approval the latest 
issue of the Green Triangle. We wish to thank the campers for the contributions 
they have sent in, though the medium of the new box in the dining hall made by 
Preston Robb, we especially wish to thank Hugh Vanivery for the splended write 

up on the Shawbridge hike. We sincerely hope that next week we may have many 

more contributions as fine as this. The staff wish to welcome the new campers 

and trust that they will unite with the old campers in boosting the Green Triangle. 
HWM. 


THE TORCH CEREMONY 


Last Tuesday the camp participated in a world wide chain of Fires of Freind- 
ship. Tuesday was the aniversary of the International Fire of Freindship at 
Toronto last year when 1400 boys united in pledging themselves to a better and 
more symphatatic understanding of the peoples of other countries. 


The ceremony was a beautiful one and most impressive and will live for a long tim 


int the memories of those of us who took part. All week long the whole camp 
had been cutting and preparing tosrches in preparation for the fire. These toar- 
ches were carved and each fellow got a number of his freinds to sign his toarch. 

"Chief" opened the ceremony by telling of the first Fire of Freindship at * 
Vaumarcus Zwitserland in 1925. Part of what he said is worth quoting, " Boys and 
their leaders from 17 countries had gathered around that Fire. "They sought unity » 
not uniformitys, fellowship not rivalry: the spirit of service rather than the spi- 
rit of boasting stern reality, not hazy idealism: the message of Christ to thes 
world today, not vague sentamentalism. 

Then in turn a boy from each of the 13 International Fires of Freindship which 
has been held since that time, stepped forwards and lighting his toarch from 
the one held by the Chief gave to us the message from the Fire he represented. 

Then alltogether with their toarches representing the unquenchable flame 
from all the previous fires, the boys lighted the Kanawana Fire of Friendship. 

As the flames mounted ever higher and leapt from stick to stick there was pro- 
found silence. As we caught the spirit of the fire our thoughts turned to the 
thousands of boys throughout the world who are united in our world Christian 
fellowship. Following this, boys representing each of the Gontinents entered the 
inner circle and lighting their torches they brought greetings, each from the boys 
whom he represented. It was an impressive and inspiring sight to see the fire bur- 
ningbrightly and around it fhestwenty boys, the torches all alight and outs.ae 

an a larger circle the rest of the campers wrapped in thoughts as to the meaning of 
the Fire. 

The campers then all filed passed the Fire and one by® one lighted their 
torches. Then standing in one great circle theyball repeated the pledge brought 
from the Fire at Toronto, "We leave this fire conscious of differences and of the 
task before us, but with a wider vision of Christian fellowship and a deeper faith 
in God 6ur Father and detemmine@ to work for peace and good will among men." 

With this the ceremony closed and the torches extinguished and we all came 
back to camp feeling that we had caught a wider vision of world fellowship and 
determined to lend our aid to the establishement of the Kingdom of Peace and Godd- 
will among men. 

Graig MacDermaid. 


Free 


=2= 


SATERRATUTELRT ba OF 


Opening with a lively sing-song, the programme last Saturday night moved 
down the line from number to number with unrilaxing tempo. Hilarity was the keynote 
of the evening, even including the health talk, given by Dr.Courwille, which 
started the programme proper. 

Stan Hager and Gorden Yull gave several minutes of clever cross talk and a 
humerous representation of a dentist's office was given by a group from the Junior 
camp, including Dom Williams, Allan Beddoe, Jimmy Hamilton anc John Morton. 

The musical side of the evening was well care for by three capable boy soloists, 
Allan Carroe, Joe Furgusson and Walter Ward. Culture was caried as customary to 
camp Kanawana by Douglas Clarke in his Operatic rendering of PaggAiacéi. 

An-other succesful edition of the Green Triangle was read and the evening was 
terminated by another presentation by our old freinds, Snoop and Peep over our 
super- super=super- pterodactyl, 13 cylinder,aircooled radio. 

Keith Bowen. 


JUNIOR HIKE TO SHAWBRIDGE 


We left for Shawbridge shortly after ten. After a good miles hiking,jGuy Bewen 
was sent back to Camp with an injured finger, accompanied by Bill Regnalds. This 
caused us a good half an hours delay. The hike was reasuned at. elevenoclock. 

Our fast pace was soon recovered and Marois was reached at a quarter to twelve. 

The leader in charge had great difficulty in persuading Jack VmEvery fo say good-bye 
to those speciments of the human race representing the Junior League Campe For 

gm awhile it seemed that Jack had made such a hit with the above mentioned ZxXExsuRaK 
members of the fair sex, that they followed the party for some time, only to be 
disappointed when dur ways parted. 

Hugh Van Every having hiked to Shawbridge before then took the lead and suc+ 
cessfully piloted the perty to the Boy's Farm. We were welcomed by Mr Ormston 
and Wajor Wilcox. A table was erected to make lunchion for the campers more enjoy- 
able. In additon to this courtasy the major teated the members of the party to 
several bottles of soft drinks. While the hikers where enjoying this luch the 
leader incharge was conspictous by his ebsence, only to return and raffle off his own 
lunbh which was doubly enjoyed by Scotty. Cur luxerious lunchion had fatal xask 
results for Doug Dawson who evédentay drank most of the soft drinks. Our Master 
of Ceremonies, Mr. Ormston, guided is through the most notable places of intrest. 
Among these where the machine shope “thie craftshop- Several of the boys in the 
machine shop were making steele building jacks. We were informed by the instructor, 
that all the met@rials used in the machine shops was gathered by the boys in the 
autumn from the various motor dumps. 

The unfavourable weather conditions tempted us to accept the invitation to 
spent the night at Shawbridge, but khowing that this was a oneday hike we commenced 
our return journey emidiatly. Although weather conditions where most unfavourable 
the spirit amongst the hikers was happy indeed. Some of them were singgng the 
Theme Song of"Sunshine Susie", while others expressed their feelings by singing 
"T wish I was back at dear Old Kanawana". We arrived back at camp at 4.306 and 
after a change of clothing a hearty supper was enjoyed by all. 

H.D.Van Every. 


SPORTS SECTON 


Junior Sports. 

This week being Olympic week the Junior programme was arrange accordingly, and 
all games where recorded and points were given for wins and other placings. Each 
team represented a different country and at the end of the weck the péints each 


team had won were tatalled, the team with the greatest number of points won the Olympics.« 


The different countries represented were Japan,Canada, U.S.A. , France, England 
anc Australia. One of the two feature eventsof this programme was the Olympic track 
meat when the various members of the Junior sect on tried ti impersonate Percy 
Williams, Phill Edwards and other Olympic stars. Two teams tied for first place 
honours in this part of the programme Japan anc U.S.A. each obtaining 23 points. 
Canada followed with 15 points and the other counrties in order of their standing 
with France, England, and Australia. The individual high scores were H.Gunnell 
U.S.A. with 15 points. H.Van Every Zapan 13, A.Cheyne Canada 13, F.Cooper U.S.A lds 
A similar event and the other feature of the week was held on Friday in the fam 
of a swimming meet when the poor fishes went wild trying Johnvy Weismuiller and 
Jimmy Mills stuff. The following is the order in which the counries emerged from 
this event, France, U.S.A. Canada, Japan and England. The individual pointgetters 
were Peter Charlton, D.Dawson, and H.Dalphon. Final pionts of the various countries 
were France 42 points, U.S.A 36, Japan 28, Canada 22, England 9, and Australia Q. 


Kanawana Baseball; 

Kanewana takes lead in series for baseball cup. 
Win in tent inning, score 7 - 6. 

Fighting finish spells victory for teame 


Rallying strongly in the ninth inning the local boys drove enough ruins across 
the plate to ty the score and force the game to extra innings. We believe manager 
Reg."Slyde"Kelly is serkously considering increases for next years contracts for 
the boys. 

The game started in a real pitchers battle both hurlers were backed up strongly 
by smart fealding. When out of a clear sky West Murphy connected and put the kk 
ball so far towards Bacsis that Shawbridge could not recovered it in time and West 
Crossed the plate for the first score. The game was tight and at the end of the 
8th inning the score was 5 - 3 for Shewbridge in their half of the ninth they 
increased their lead to three runs. It was 4 big order for the Kanawanians but 
they answesed une call nobly end Murphy agein produ ced a runn when he scored on an 
overtnrow to third. Norman Thom then got on +o base and pokerface Miller fortunately 
lost the ball when he hit iver third base and both men scored. That tied the score 
and put the game into exvura innings. Again in the tenth inning it looked pad for 
Kanewana with two Shawbridge men on bases whrn Rob Wright started a double play 
Wright to Stober. On an overthrow to third an otner Shawbridge man attempved to steale 
home but Murphy recoverd the ball in time and the man was caught at home. Now Ka- 
nawana patting and Whalen got on base and O'Brein knocked 2 homer wh.ch finished 
the gawe. "What a game" The whole camp deserves credit for the fine manner in 
which they supported the team and encourage the players to back the fine pitching 
of Mile McNaughton. Good work Kanawana and we hope thatbyou can repeat on Tuesday 
when you meat Shawbridge at Shawbridge. A vey note worthy result of the game 
is the fine sportsman ship exhibited by both teamss by Kanawana when they were tas- 
ting defeat in the later innings and especially by Shawbridge when anill break of 
luck on a strange field lost th game for theme It was an ideal exam le of good 
sportsmanship both teams deserved-to be congratulated on being good winners and 
gous loosers respectively. 

Jack Miller. 


al on \ whOW 7 3 
THE MYSTARY OF THE BESSBBSRO UGH DIAMOND Sg 


Yes it has come to pass. The Sénhors Sleuth Squad, faced by the loss of the 
s 1 ¢ v a eal: 
$100,000 Bessborough necklace, belonging to the lovely lady Pailyanna Clark, 
confessed that upto a late hour last night there was no successfull reports. 


Inspedtors O'Brien Tully issued the following exclusive statement to the 
Green Trinagle reporter. "we were first informed of the loss early Thursday : 
evening. A map left by the criminals was the only clue to the robbery « Inspec | 
tor O'Brien's squad was successful in discovering pieces of a key to the Treasures . 


(V 


ay 


for 
However, this riddle was a bit hard/af the Kanawana's piamixk.keenost. Late inth 
into the night they searched but finally retired to their tents with their brains 
working overtimée 


All day the local Sherlock Holmes worked unceaseingly but unsuccessfully. Lady 
Pollyanna suffered a nervous breakdown and was forced to retire to a Sanitorim 
under the general care of Dr. Zachariah Nathaniel Coldglazer. A rumour soon 
soon denied that the Junior Division was to be called in spurred the Seniors on 
to further actions 


Late Thursday afternoon contact was made with the robbers for negotiating the 
return of the diamonds. It was reported that immunity fmm the chute was offered. 


BXTRA EXTRA = STOP PRESS 


A phoney express rider from Senior Camp has just brought in a dispatch about 
Lady Pollanna Clark's diamonds. After successful negotiathmans, the dastardly 
thieves, under a grilling third degree session by Inspectors OfBrien andTully 
revealed the location of the priceless sparklers stolen under most dramictic 
circumstances from the beautiful niece of the Ducke of Bessborough. 


Detective Ivor Williams “Soapy" to the "criminal set late of Scotland Yard 

and North Branch discovered the scintillating necklace glistening in the hollow 
of an old birch tree. Williams who attributes his success to the pale moon whose 
weak rays were reflected like a thousand stars by the crystal clear white bit of 
feminie adornment, is in line for promotion from his present copper jobe 


Interviewed by ow special reporte#, Mr. Doug. Clark today gave up the statem nt 
that his presence in the hospital is due to a case of double pneumonia, 

developing from the loss of a film of har from the upper lip. We wonder if he ueed 
Pepsodent to remove the filme 


FOUND 


A new girl friend for Stan Egar. Dave Hobbs and others may also apply to Bob 
Gibsone 


We hear that Cyril Willingdon was taken in tow by a smart looking girl m Tuesday 
and he was so far gone that he forgot to get her nameée 


WANTED 
A pair of moes Hr Ede Baylis» 


We WOUID LIKE TO KNOW - Why Wally Kemball did not ait at the staff table last 

Sunday at dimer tine? 

How Tom Carnell spent his four day's leave at the little 
Gray home in St. Sauveure 

Where HOT LIPS Furness spent Monday afternoon ard 
evenings 

Where Herb Furness received the name of HOT LIFES and why? 

Why three seniors were 50 kind to Jack Bryson? 

Why Doe Colglazer asked to Doe Courville » take care of 
a certain woman known as Helene ; 

We would like to know wio Stan Egar was thinking of when 
he forgot to address his letter. (He claims it was his nother) 


We would like to know where Geo.Tulley met the Chief in 
St. Sauveur on Wednesdaye 


PUBLISHERS NOTE 


After the paper had gone to press the following late edition was sent in by the 
Juvenile Sports Repa ter. 


JUVENILE SPORTS 


Animal league finishes this evening when the Beavers 

: play the Apes for the tent 
Championship.s6n Thurdéday afternoon the Pirates quickly submegged the Swiss Navy. 
A successful regatta was run off this aftermoon but the winners are not yet known. 


DOROTHY DIX. ADVICE TO THE LOVE LORN 


Dear Miss Dix 
I often walke down to St. Sauver in the evenings On the way 
down I meet several animals. Whick kind of animals-are the most dangerous? 
TOM CARNELL 


Dear Tommy - 
The little "Gray" animals are by far the most dangerous. 


Dear Dotty Dix e 

: I am just an innocent girl from St. Sauveur. Three weeks ago 

I met a nice Samznxkk Counsellor from Kanawana called Doug. Clark (Do you know him) 
He used to see me every night/for the lest ten days I have only seen him once. He 


but 
claims he lowes playing chess with Reg. Kelly more. And nov Doug is in the hospita 


What is the matter? 
FLORENCE 


Dear Flo = 
Perhaps Doug is suffering from serious ches(t) trouble. 


Dear Miss Dixe 
My wife doesn't like the cut of my pants and says I must cheose 


between her and them. Which is the most important to a man? 
Yous sincerely 
REG KELLY 


Dear Mre Kelly = ; 
can lots of places without his wife. 
immia 7 DOROTHY DIX 


Dear Miss Dixe What exeuse has Wally Kemball got for remaining @ bachelore 
Yor s tmly 


An interested Widow 


«~~ @ 


Dear Interested Widow = 
He was born that waye 


DOROTHY DIX. 


Dear Miss Dix e 


; ; There is a girl down in the village I would like to 
kiss if I dared, but I don't know how he wuld feel about ite Would youmind 
if somebody tried to kiss you? 


Yours worriedly 
Eddie DeWitt 
Dear Mr. DeWitt @ 


Certainly I would mind if someboday tried to kiss 
mee 1 mte failures. 


Dorcthy Dixe 


Dear Miss Dix - 
I am invited to a Golden Weddirg aniversagy and I am 
expected to bring something in golds What is the cl apest thing 1 could get. 


Yours in great anxictye 
Prestie Robb 


Dear Mire Robb = 
Take g a gold fish. 
DOROTHY DIX. 


Dear Miss Dix «= 
when we have visitors of the opposite sex, why must 
they be females of an advanced agee Why can't we have a few younger girls come 
Visit USe , 
Perplexedly Yous 


David Morton 


Dear David e- 
What do you expect for $8250 a weeke 


DOROTHY DIX 


um 
—. -——— 


