Aug. I, 1936. 


The Green Triangle 


An Issue in verse. 


na s week has come and cuickly cof at Kanawana's shores 
= ¢" Peek the old Jo Snooper man fhas peeped through key-hole doors 

And found that as the days have sped from Sunday until now 

That many strange occurences have ended up * and howé 

Perhaps the first of great import/concerns & man forlorn 

Who sent away for dancing steps because his heart was torn 

With gravest doubts that when should come a chance to dance at camp 
That he'd be chiselled by someone who ta-onchisifeet would tramp 
So Normie Richards has a book he just received to-day 

'On How to Dancet in oany steps to chase your gloom away. 
Stranger things have happetied still within this campiné¢ week 
Once again on hot foot trail at John Pe»srson do we peek. 

For Weir one night did he sét out to see his great desire 

But lost the trail to Morin Heights - nor can he cell us liar. 
On, on, he tyod with beating heart and minds built sigh with ye 
But he came out at Mile Hill's end - and now we call him dope. 
But hearken still to yet one more ~ & tale of Betts in stride : 
He dasked to Marois's moonlif& shores to phone his weak heart's pride. 
Before he left heedashed about in search of money's clink 

And had to raise the 9.M. roof in mighty verbal stink 


So he could trip on bushy trail to phone a word or two 


And wisper softly o'er a phone - I send my love to you. 

| a Upon this horizon of sights a vision now appears 

; : It is a vision of the Chief who's mostly in arrears 

And bublt about his yowned- form is yards of grey serge pants 
To hold a lot of legs inside and his own form orem 


=. * ~~ 
‘ h 


26 


It is an easy thing to say and samething mighty true 

"Chief MacDiarmid, now we've got a lot of pants on you", 

Still another sight of sights was seen one Wednsday morn 

Aman dressed up the naked wway the day that he was born 
But in two tubs he balance feet in buckets spread astride 
And soaped himself with Lifebuoy smell like frothy ocean tide 
Prosquerin was this undressed's name whose known as John to most 
The chap who sets the tables right and serves the staff the roast 
This 4Yesday Wednesday morn when he was free to do just as he chose 
He gave himself a bath in pans from feet to Russian nose 

So if perchance you find a hair when washing dishes right 

'T will be a bit of hairy chest John's rubbed with all his micht 
As 211 who study with their might and with a ee clear 
Word came by paper to the camp that brought one heartening cheer 
The days of June had been as days of work and midnight toil 
When papers set by college men might eur all our fond hopes spéil 
But when the lists were scanned with fear that rose like reeling tower 
At the head of most the class was our own Georgie Flower. 

So in the midst of all this verse that scaffs at every tale 
Just let us pause to give congrats to George with iusty hail. 
But on we must to further news of happenings veiled by night 
About a man by Potter named who scurried out of sight 

Last “ednesday eve as dusk fell down like petals on stilidponds 
Our dusky Hal closed up his books of stecks-andtmohey= bdnis™: - 
Quietly flitting out the door and with a hurried pace 
He fled from camp like rumner on a hillysteeplechase 


Qter the trail to Marois, o'er the trail he sped 


With thoughts of love and what it cost mixing up his head 


Just whet transpired we cannot tii nor would we dare to say. 


EEE sont” — -_ nd i) er). | 


36 
But Hal returned not in the night and not tntil the day 
On Thursday morn with head bowed low and face creased with despair 
He slouched to camp to scream a cry: "Nevermore will I go there!" 
Then Thursday came and with it joy that took-off every frown 
For loud was the cry in lustiness: "The circus is in town". 
The Midway swayed with monied crowds whose coppers they doled out 


And when @ coin won one more prize it was greeted with a shout 


| 
| Oranges off the orange tree kept falling in a pile 
| Until & erop was harvested in too ee style 
| Each barker plied his penny trade with games of skill to test 
| But worst of all the Junior camp was so completely messed 
| That loud were the wails of campers then who must gazink again 
Afid scavenge all the mess once more and work like twice times ten 
But circus days like others @ays must pass into the past 
And Friday then was on the spot and the track meet here at Jast. 
Fach day that Johnny Pearson had planned to make us run 
He connived to get some rain to blot out all our fun 
But just this once the clouds went by and sun streamed like a flame 
And there we were to our surprise getting halt and lame. 
Of course a track meet such as this must have its shiny star: 
One who glitters in a race or shimmies over bar: 
Now John the Kidd, that hairy man, stepped up to his mark 
With Bobbie Bennett close beside as if on merry lark 
The starter's whistle blew a blast to set them on their way 
To run three laps about the track in whatever way they may 
John the Kidd just circled twice nite tongue out by his knees 
Then gasped and fell with tired breathyin respunding wheeze 
He muttered as he slumped away:"Justbetween me and yo." 


I've been used to just one lap, and never, never two", 


ee 


Vit etal poe be 


age See 
=e ee) 


——— oe 


wa 


be = wT eer eS iy 


as | 


1 a 


4. 


But Friday still had things to bring and early in the day 
Admiral Pelley returned to camp from the city far away 

He'd sailed his own ship into town where he'd put into port 

And like a sailor from the seas he started to cavort 

He rolled and staggered on the shoals where pretty mermaids sang 
Whoséxdulcet ‘woices and charming ways wrecked him with a bang. 
Fast went the savings of those days he'd sailed:on ‘camping lakes 
And all for the charming mermaid ways and for their pretty sakes. 
But let us just pause once again to peep at our new chef 

The man who on occasion at your requests is deaf 

A transform. tion has been made the like we've never seen 

His moustached mouth is trimmed just so and likewise is his bean 
The cause of this is not quite known but our guess is not amiss 
The hair got into his wife's eyes and the moustache spoiled the kiss. 
The tale istold_of what we can*for night is coming fast 

And of the things we've left unsaid that's happened in the past 
We want to give you warning about everything you do 

Be careful when Jo Snook's around or he'll tell on you too 


til 


- Frank Lloyd Sharpe. 


