8 ; 5 Vok. 4, No. 9. August 17, 1955. 


THE GREEN TRIANGLE. 


Here you have it, fellows - the ninth and second=to-last 

edition o th Green Triangle for 1935. Next week will be our last chance 
to see and hear your name in print - to experience the joy of having 
some of your own work published ~ in other words to send in your contributions. 
Remenber, we publish anything. However, a few hints as to what you might 
follow and write up- what the Staff does on Wednesdays, why Chief makes such 

’ frequent visits,to the city, and why John Kidd can never be found in Camp on 
Saturday evenings. 


-000~ 


Sunday, August 11, was « day momentous in the History 
of Kanawana. It was a very beautiful day, in fact almost perfectsice crean 
was served again at suppor after a lapse of some weeks; but best of all, 
some twenty girls from Junior League were our welcome visitors.e We certainly 
were glad to have them here ~ especially the directors and certain counselors. 
In fact, wo ha e it on good authority thet they have beon asked back for to-morro 
We 

~g00— 


Musicale on Sunday Evening. 


Last Sunday evening, on the gallery of the Lodge, there 
transpired a program without precedent in the ahfals of nu na ~ a musicale. 
It was very fine, and the degree of attention paid to the artists attending 
showed in itself to what extent the campers enjoyed the efforts of our 
mus scans. Harols Potter, Bill Paul,Wilf Buckley, Art Morrow, Doug Reilly, 
Les Bourbae,Stewart Morrison, Neil MacKinnon ~- all contributed to make it 
a evening to be long remembered by ali whe heard, There were present 
besides our own campers several visigors from Junior League, who declared 
that it was a rare treat. The boys who partook deserve the sincere praise 
of everone. 

000 


Gouncil Rings 


On Thureday last there was held the first Indian Council Ring 
Ceremony of the Tribes of Kanawems for thés season, It met with an enthusiastic 
reception, and bodes well for the future of such fires at Kan wanna. 

Dowards nightfall all the braves and chiefs gathered on 
the territory inhabited by the Juniors, clad in the Characteristic blenket and 
feathers and prosedoded as tribes, each with a little Chief, to the main 
Council Ring. After thier entrance and the Ceremony of Rol} Call 
the Council was officially opened, The fire was lit from four forls 
symbolic,of truth, of a beautiful body, 
Then the council was thrown open to reports of interesting phoemomona 
of nature in this section of the country, followed by challenges and a 
particularly fetching dance by the Senior Camp. The ecremm ended in the 
chanting of the Omaha Tribal Prayer , the braves filed out to the haunting 
music of the Tom- tom. 


Tt was a great success, and repeated dem nds for more make it 
almost a e certainty that next year will witness other similar programs. 


0005 
Bite the Elea. 


The record of this year at Kanawana has been saddened by the loss 
of the camp mscot — Bite the Flea. We are very sorry to have to report that 
as he was makogjng his toilette this morning he fell from his precarious 
perch in the Chef's mustache into a bowl of porridge where he wsa promptly 
poisoned by the usual overdose of salt. Humeral Notice Later. 


=000~ 


Dorothy Dix! Advice to the Lovelort 


Dear Miss Dix, 

My bewt pall and I go every night to St. Sauveur to see two 
girls we know. He always runs off with ue blond and leawes me withthe Brunette. 
Is that fair? 


Lorne Hamilton. 


Dear Lortie, 
Fair to him, Brunette to yous 


Dear Dorothy, 
I an dark, strong and handsome, and possess everything 
onthe world a young girl gould desire, yet no young girl will go out 
with me. What van the matter be? 


Currie Camnichael.. 


Dear Currie 
Even your best friend wo ldn't tell you that. 


—— 2 


Dear Miss Dix, 
I am invited toe golden wedding anniver@ary and I am expected 
to bring something in gold, What is the che pest ting I could get? 
711. 


Dear Tlit, 
fry a gold fishe 


—— — — 


Dear Miss Dix, 
My ideal of a wife is one who can make good bread. 


r Buckley. 
Dear Buck old Boy, 


My ideal of a husband is one who can raise the Dough 
in tine of mead. 


Dear Miss Dix, 
Have you ever been lonely, have you ever heen blue? 


Art Wilkinson. 


Dear Art, 


Yes, I have been lonesome all season; this years“ counselors are 
not nearly es forward as last years'. 


~000= 


ann Thru’ a Kevhole, by Snoope 


John Proscurin hasd a lady fried down the road; she moved away. But she 
couldn't take it ~ dhe’s back again 


A news flash from Carmicheel Frankie and Kohnnie were lovers." 


Seeing that the majority of wisttors last Sunday were Junior League 


girls, were were greatly surprised that Iangoille and Hilton did not 
takecthe visitors’ tables. 


Heard at a Juvenile table: 
Carmichael: Don't do that. Where were you brought up? 
Crossey: Alabama’ 


The only bathing attire they have at Junior League is decidedly feminine and 
ask Lorne Hamilton if it isn't hard to got intot A daring 1936 red flannel 
model was the only suit he could borrow, and like all modern ladies’ suits, 
It 01 ingst ; 


1 hangover from Marois Night: ö 5 
Doug Macdonald : Let's sit this dance out; no one will be any the wiser. 
Partner: Oh yes, you willl 


A Flash from Senior Camp? 
Howie Iangoille: I thought you said you could keep a seeret? 
Ie Riche. We 11, I kept it for a weeks do you think I'ma cold storage plant? 


20002 1 


Dear Miss Dix; I can't sleep - my nightd are agony. I count sheep till 
all hours, and have even resorted to counting backwards; but to no avail. 

Please tell me, is it love? 
Ralpf Flitton. 
Dear Ralph, No it is not love ~ it is insomnia. 


Dorothy Dix’ Advice to the Lovelorn 


Dear Miss Dix, 
There are two women in my life — one is wealthy and the other 
just managesmto get along. . Please advise ne which one shall I marry? 


Art Evans. 


Dear Art 
, I have studied your case carefully and arrived at this conclusion 
marry tye poor one and send My.bifacdiarmid the address of the other. 


Dear Miss Dix, 
T am 58. My hair is slowly g but surely turning grey, abi 
lines are beginning to appear around my mouth. How shall I keep my youth? 


' Bescis Counsellor. 


Dear Miss Growing-0ld, 
Don't introduce him to your young girl friends. 


1 


Dear Miss Dix, 

Not long ago I took sick and was taken to the hospital with 
appendicitis. As it happened, the young and handsome Doctor Eardley 
of Kamp Kanawana was to perform the operation. Just as they wheeled me into 
the operating room, The Doc bent over and whispered that I had acute 
appendicitis. I thought that this mst be love at first sight, else why 
would a Doctor flatter his patient at such a critical moment? But now 
he does not even know me when he passes me on the road to St.Sauveur. 


Junior League Girl. 


Dear J. L. G., 
Send me a stamped self-addressed envelope for personal 
advices 
Dear Miss Dix, 
Can you tell if a man is a bad egg if he is rich? 
Chief. 
Dear Chief, 


No, you can only tell if a man is a bad egg if he is broke. 


——ñů—ů— 2U— 


> ieee 


