Kamp Kanawana - Saturday, July 2, 1938 


The Montreal Y.M.C.4. has operated a camp in the Laurentians for the past 
feurty-four years. During those years a weekly camp newspaper has been prepered, 
known first cs the "Gas Bag" and more recently as the "Green Triangle", which wes 
read orally at the Saturday night entertainments. It was found, however, that there 
wes difficulty in following the reading of the news attentively, and so wes born 
the printed camp newspaper of 1937. 


In presenting volume Forty-five of the peper, we hope thet we can maintain ~ 
the high standard of the issues of volume forty-four of last season. To do so we 
must have the assistence of several literery fellows who are not afraid of a little 
hard work cnd who want to meke o real contribution to enmp this year. It is sin- 
cerely hopedthat those whe are interested in the publication of this newspaper will 
become members of the Publisher's Guild. Let us see a good bunch of fellows at the 
first meeting! 

fas a SP BSN eG C AM PF IT R'E 


A very impressive ceremony took place at the opening campfire of the 1938 season 
in the council ring on Monday evening. The first part sf the programme wes on ck= 
pression of “goodwill towerds men" = goodwill towards the people of all nations 
and creeds. The camp itself is cosmopolitan, having among its ranks cempers who 
represent some fifteen different nationa. By becoming friendly with those fellows 
we will gain respect for their various countries, end, because we form © part of 
public opinion, will be a foree for intermationclism. 


The Fire of Friendship in the centre of the council ring was kindled by the 
torches of campers representing the Spirits of Work, Play, Co-operction ond the Tr ye 
Spirit of Kenavena in © very impressive ritual. 


The serious part of the programme wes followed by several rollicking songs 
led by Chief ond Norm Walinee. Following the singing of “Abide With Me” the ce 
ers slowly vended their ways through the trail to their respective tents ond oa 


tame Seow © BR. Se SES RS | ie Fas * es RY 


A colorful pageant of costumes wes witnessed end participated in by many 
ecempers on Thursday evening in the Lower Pavilion. i visitor happening in on the 
proceedings, would have been spirited avay to the time of the Confederation of the 
provinces in 1867. 


The first prize for Mr. & Mrs. Pioneer was won by Doug. Dilks in top hat,, : 
Morrey Cross in bustle, cud sons Doug. and Ian MaGillis in diepers. Other picize 
Winners were the Doctor 2: © white-haired boeuty; Bob Ross as an Indian Chie f; and 


atherlend, Ted Cedenhead, end Ken Enton as man, wife and dog. 


After choice of best costumes. the Ghicf put a group of follows through the 
gyretions of the Virginin Recd to the tune of the assumbleé musicians. This was 
followed by the announeement of the members of the Ali~Cemp Council, who nad been 
elected that nfternoon. A domonstvotion of «, bern dance step vas then given by 
Chic® Mocdinartid, after which the fellows rcturned to their tents to spend an hour 
attempting to remove their cosmetics. . 


F L A s Ht 3 f 


News has just been received that Dick Ctt of Juvenile camp hes got rid of his 
"Red Hat" aftor trying for three years and is now a green hat. Congrats, Dick! 


oie erie AB a0 AM. PSO OU Na Sd 


The following are the elected representatives of each section: Juvenile, Harry 
Homilton, John Turner Bone; Junior;- Ian Fraser, Don Fraser; Senior:- Tom Hardwick, 
and Lorne Smith. 


These leeders Have accepted the responsibility of the Presidency of the follow- 
ing groups:- ; 


Yachting Club - Norman Wallace 
Craftsments Guild - Tack TreLand 
Svimming Ciub = Tom Nixon 
Pubiisners' Guild - Morrey Cross 
Phosogzanhy Chub = Ken Smith 


Fishiag’ lub = Ross Seaman 
Music & Dramatics Club - Beri 72 Laslie 
Hiking CiLub = Dwight Rivard 
Health Club : - Stevé Gennen 


These campers and leaders will form en All-Cemp Council which will arrange 
the programme for the coming few weeks. 


