Vol 4, no.4. July 13, 1935. 


THE GREEEN TRIANGLE. 


If you had happened into the editorial offices of the Green 
Triangle anytime yesterday you would have beheld the editor and alk his 
reporters and all their assistants grouped around in a circle crying their 
hear$s out. They cried and cried, until finally there was such a puddle of 
tears in the room that all the furniture including the chairs they were 
sitting on floated outside. Then all stopped crying. You ask what was the 
reason for this touching display of emotion? The answer is simple = despite 
last week's flowery invitation for contributions, very few have arrived. 
Now come along, and support your paper, before the staff be permanently confined 
to the hospitale 

000 

Despite all the rain last Sunday, there were in Camp over one 
hundred visitors. Kanawana is always ready to welcome visitors, especially 
the type that do not allow a rainy day to spoil their fun. 

Although the rain did put a damper on th day's activities, 
nevertheless a well attended chapel service was held in the Lodge, at which 
Mr. Ernest Trueman of Montreal delivered an inspiring address on “How Much are 
We Worth?" The service was very mich enhanced, too, by the presence of the 
Manawana Quartette, consisting of seven baritones and one tenor. 

In the afternoon, at an impressive ceremony around the flag 
pole on Junior Campus Mr. Truemen presented to the Camp on behalf of the youth 
of Japen a "Koi Nobori" or huge effigy of a capp, which flew from the flagpole 
for the remainder of the day. In an effort to promate interhational goodwill 


and brotherhood, the boys of Cjina have dispatched such fich to nations all over 


the world. 
one came here to anawana and was accepted in the spirit it was 


given.A fitting reply has been mailed to our Japenése friends, and those 


who attende the ceremony have a clearer understanding of the Japanese than 
ever before. 


=000~ 


The Boating Carnival. 


Hurreht Hurral. Hurrah} Three rousing cheers rang out over the 
lakes Hurraht Hurrah’ Hurraht Three more, mat for? Why, for the seniors, 
géucourse, with their spectacular entry in the Boat Carnivale We Shan't tell 
you whet it was - the matter is mach too delicate; suffice it to say that a 
House of Parliamant was removed from the hill and that Doug Macdonald felt 
much better. 

ee OF oclents Tan maak Boetinn Guvettel po ia wh an ee 
a o COLOUY e 
Lr 
judges found it very difficult to determine the winners, and it was no disgrace 
to lose. Here is a list of the lucky ones: 
Tied for first prise (one pie, which they haven't even smelled yet) + 


— Tent „ Junior. 
Toonerville frolley — Tent „ Junior. 
Kenawana Prison ~ Tent „ Junior. 
A Waiting Game — Senior Camp. 

Honourable Mantion: 

Matilda — Lohn Kidd. 
Goldola — Tent 3, Juvenile. 
Cameron's Express — Tent 5, Juvenile. 
Council Ring — Tent 4, Juvenile. 


To-morrow afternoon the Carnival will be repeated for the benefit 
of visitors, and at that time press photographs will be taken. 


000 


8 ports Section. 


First of all we have a very welcome piece of news ~ Eddie 
leithem, a Junior Camper, swem the length of the lake in 21} minutes, 
establishing an all-camp record for this seasons Good going, Bidie boy} 


Here is something Kanawanians have been awaiting for a long while « 
a baseball game and track and field meet against Shawbridge Boys“ Farm, It 
will probably take place next Wednesday at Shawbridge. On your way, Kenawana 
All Stars, and do your stufft 


This week has been great for hikes - mexurmxtskiWednesday moring 
Senior and Juvenile overnight hikes left for Simmkriige Morin Heights, and a 
party of Juniors went on their way rejoicing for a three day sojourn at Otoreke., 
besides the usual shorter hikes. We are locking forward to another such program 
next week. 


We are told that this year the swimming record at Kanawana is 
better than ever before. Remember the old T motto, “Every member a swimmer and 
every swimmer a life saver." ; 


every swimmer a life saver" ; most of the credit is due to Ernie Taylor, too. 
Friday afternoon the Juveniles held a track and Field meet which spea 

ks well for next Wednesday's contest. In the senior division Walker captured 

the aggregate honours with sixteen points while Hill and Hutchison teied for 

the runner-up position with ten points each. Moore was Junior Ageregate man with 

fourteen foints, followed by Reade with ten. 


000 


Advice to the Iovelorn, by Dorothy Dix. 


Dear Miss Dix, 


Howie Langoille has just net the nicest girl in Marois. 
He has half a mind to kiss hers What would you advise? 


Phil Brodeur. 
Dear Phil, N 
If he had a whole mind héd have kissed her lomk ago. 
Dorothy Dix. 
“000+ 
Dear Dorothy, 


My girl friend says my suit is too loud. What shall I do? 
Ric Wright. 


Dear Mr. Wright, ; 
Why hot wear a muffler? 


Miss Dix. 


Dear Dot, 


I am very interested in music and would like to know what 
you call it when sight peolpe sing to-gather auch as in the Kanewana Quabtette. 


Elward Kneeland. 


Dear El, 
I would call it a racket. 


Dote 


Dear Miss Dix, 


Did you ever notice that women are like railroad crossings, 
you stop and then you look? 


Harold Potter. 
Dear Harold, 
Tes, „And after you are married... ... %u listen. 
Dorothy Dix. 


Kanayana Thru’ a Keyhole, by Snoope 


Hugh Ray tells us that he can concentrate better when the lights are one 
Mow does Gordie Appleton like carrying a knapsack full of rocks all the 
way from Morin? And why was he so excited at Marois that he sat down and 
left a pool of water behind him? 


Clarke Merritt says the girls at Becsis wear perfectly ripping bathing f 
suits. 


and how does the kitchen staff like Becsis? 


— —— 


You should have seen Hugh Rey at St. Sauveur iiednesday. He shooed all the 
hikers out of the water and then proceeded to play water poho against 
four girls. (Editor's Note in water polo no holds are barred.) 


John Lewis claims that he us a camper firstm last, and always; but his first words 
up here were "Are there any good-looking women in Marois? 


How does Doug Macdonald like teaching swimming to women? 
Is it true that her old man had to throw Derrick Crossey out? 


Howard Marcou still claims that the adhesive take on his nose is to protect it 
from the som, but we won't swallow it. 


Rie right has not been to Marois for over a week and a half. Has she thrown 
him over? 


Poor Phil Brodeur = he was so shy at Morin that he ohly danced the last dance 


and was shunted off the floor in it for wearing short trousers; then when 
mooning by the water falls he fell in; and now he's writing volumes about his ; 


eee 


