The Green Triangle 


Volume 5 Re-union Number 


October 17, 19356 


Théo issue& of the "Green Triangle” marks the twenty-seventh 


annual re-union of old Kanawanians. Each year our get-togethers 


include more fellows and more of their parents and friends. Those 
of us who have camped at Kanawana year after year have come to have 
a very warm place in our hearts for the old spote It seems to be- 
come dearer to us as the years go by. 


It is interesting to know that among the crowd here tonight 
there are a number of fellows whose fathers camped at Kanawana as 
boys many years ago. Things have changed at Camp since those early 
days. Where fifty boys once camped two hundred and forty now live. 
We have three sections instead of one. Some of us now sleep in 
cabins where our dads slept in tents on the bare ground. 


But despite the changes in the physical equipment of the camp, 
the lakes and the trees and the hills are still the same. And the 
spirit that permeates throughout does not alter much year by year. 
There is the same spirit of fellowship and good comradeship that the 
first campers established, and Kanawana continues to play its part 
in the building of sturdy manhood among the bovs of Montreal. Our 
hope is that it may long continue to do so and that most, if not 
all, of us may continue to camp at Kanawana for many years to come. 


"Social Notes” 


We are glad to report that McGill University has profited greatly 
through the registration of a number of Kanawana lLeaders' this year, 
Currie Carmichael, George Flower, Doug. Reilly, Lloyd Mussels have all 
registered in first year and from all accounts are showing McGill what 
a University should be... Neri Guadagni and Wesley Woo are back at Mc- 
Gill in their 3rd year. Outstanding among the activities in the Wniver- 
sity was a day when Currie turned out for football practic and in showing 
them how to do it smashed his arm and shoulder or something. Since then 
Currie has been the walking example of how not to play football. 


Talking of broken arms reminds us that J ack Liddy also made a de-~ 
monstration of how not to play football in Montreal West and broke his 
wrist. Both Jack and Currie are now sticking to checkers and have be- 
come quite experts. 


Kamp Kanawana boys are largely responsible for the success of the 
present membership campaign in the Westmount branche. Bob Mahon and 
Eric Swaine are captains of the Junior teams with Ian Fraser, Ken Lindsay 
Wally Johnson and Deharriell Bedford as assistantse Wally Beaton and 
Mac Shippee are captains in the intermediate division and Dave Sproule 
in the senior division. Dave is also leading the prep and intermediate 
gym classes in Westmount on Saturday ae as b bbe as being leader 
in one of the Saturday night Groups. a ‘ 


Marshall Lebeau, Doug. Reilly and bob Bennet are also leading groups 
at Westmount branch. They must bs some groups these fellows as lead- 
ers. 


Vic Soucisse just can't keep away from leather work. He is again 
teaching the class at Westmount how to make belts, purses and what not's. 


Talking about football Hughie Fulton is the outstanding star. You 
should see him miss the ball when it comes to hin. Hughie may miss the 
ball in foot.all but look on the sign board in Central boys Department 
to see what his team is doing in the membership campairn. 


At NeDeG they are all playing rugby just now. Allan Hunter, Rus 
Bremner, John Shepherd and Bob Snow are all stars on the various teams. 
Jerry Tawse thinks rugby is too sissx-fied so he is starfing at tennis. 


Wally Cains has been seen recently with a new girl friend. Did he 
lear ‘technique from John Kidd? Shaves of Junior League Camp: 


Mac Shippee and Ned Mahon have taken up water-polo. W6 always thought 
they were all-wet, now we know it. 


Pop Spence just can't forget K anawana and bts is busy working with 
the woodworking class at Westmount making paddles for next summer. 


(2) 


Bryce Chatham is a busy fellow these days running the N.D.G. ‘ys 
Bryce is a member of the Junior leaders ro and leader of thea 
Jr. group as well as movie machine operator on Friday nights. 


Our warbling nightingale John Housemna was one of the artists 
at the NeD.G Branch show in the community hall recently as one of 
the twelve amateurs in the weekly summer sing song. Congratu- 
latings John on‘Winning 4th. prize. 


Bill Gould and Eddie Power have both gone away to school, Bill 
to the Fellé@rfg Institute and Eddie to Stans 


Gordie Appleton has joined the big parade along with Harold Potter 
Buell Flaherty,.John Kidd and Hal Betts at Sir George Williams College 
He looks cute with his freshman hat on. 


& t 
(om ULL eautt 


oY 
SPS oe IETS 
— 


Do You Remember 


When Chef Watson fell out of the boat and came up still 
smoking his pipe. 


How John Pearson looked when he heard his first letter 
from Rosie Laflamme. 


Frank Sharpe when he tried to cut his brithday cake, and 
Frank's hospitality that night. 


Bill Evans's black eye. 
v “a 
Bob Ile Riche's crying catastrophe. 


How the juniors thought they could play ball and how the 
staff nearly trimmed them. 


When Currie Carmichael pinched the senior's ice cream. 
The juveniles on Marois night. 


How Dick Abraham looked when he thought the tarts were 
all gone thatsame night. 


When Mr. Philips swanythe lake. 

When Claude Tessier led the St. Saveur Chorus. 

When Guy Savoy started to study. - 

When Gordie Modeland was a pirate. 

When Alf Proulx stopped talking. 

When Charlie Radkte played a marathon on the piano. 
When "Clementine" felinto the foaming bride. 

The first time the juveniles sang "We are the darling 


juveniles. 


When Jr. Taylor and Pat Ewen got lost. en Pete Wheatley 
played the hero. 


"Things We Would Like To Know" 


Why Macdonald College foothall team is doing so well in the 
inter-collegiate leacue. If they had scored 49 more points against 
Loyola College they would have beaten Loyola by one point. Also 
they were just MeéHea out Wednesday by the McGill freshmen team with 
the close score of 23 to 0. If Macdonald College would like a good 
coach we could lend them Frank Sharpe. 


If John Pearson's haircut ak the McGill-Queens football game 
at Kingston last week was to his liking. 


Where John Kidd was going the other nicht in a boiled shirt 
and all the trimmings. Also whether he had any difficulty in find- 
ing his shoes. 


If it is true that George Flower has been appointed official 
adviser to the freshettes at the R.V.C. is true that Hal Betts 
is running a Y.W.CeA.e in Rosemount. 

Why Wesley Woo is taking a course on tie "family" at McGill. 


Why Graham Pelley gave up his job on the soda-fountain to be- 
come head chef in the cafeteria. 


If the Snow brothers Art, Bob and Dave enjoyed the hail storm on 
Thanksgiving Day. 


The following are excerpts from issues of the "Green Triangle" of 
the last couple of years. No dates are given--but they bring back 
Memories. : 


Senior Canoe Trip 


On Tuesday afternoon the Seniors -- seven of them and two, 
leaders-left camp by truck for Montford, to paddle from there 
to Sixteen Island Lake. However they were back again within 
ten minutes - they had forgotten half their supplies. Such 
Hickers! And then they spent the first night sleeping on the 
soft lap of a rock pile! Such Campers again! And they, to ContouteS 
crown i all they didn't even try to make 16 Island - tliey eontette 
themselves with remaining at Newago. Such Canoeistsi But any- 
way, they all had a good time, or rather, "A good time was had 
by all" which after all, is the prime object of any such trip. 


-000- 


The Juniors went hiking, too - a 5 day outing to 14 Island 
Lake. Of course they were wild, but not nearly as wild as the. 
seniors - they just haven't the technique which their older bro- 
thers have acguired through manylong years of practice. 


-o00- 


We have a very pleasnat announcement to make - this afternoon 
Junior Taylor swan the length of the lake. As far as we know, this 
is the first time a juvenile has accomplished such a feat. 


-000- 


Last Sunday evening the fires of Kanawana were kindled in a 
beautiful Torch Ceremony symbolic of Workd Friendship and Brother- 
liness, one which will live long in the memory of all who attended. 


The council Ring was the seene of the main activities. There 
the whole camp gathered in expectation of something fine; nor were 
they disappointed. Chief opened proceedings in a short speech about 
the two Fires of Friendship, at Vaumarcus, Switzerland in 1925, and 
at Toronto in 1933, and their aim to "Send nen forth with a wider 
vision of Christian fellowship and determined to work for peace and 
good will among men." Then from a torch kindled at the Toronto 
fire, boys representing each of the continents kindled torches of 
their own, each bringing greeting from the boys he represented; then 
all toghether, with their brands symbolising the unguenchable flame 
of previous Fires of Friendship, they lighted the first Kanawana fire 
for 1935. 


Immediately runners were dispatched with flaming torches to 
light the other fires 6f Kanawana. In the interval before their re- 
turn natives of nine different countries then in camp told something 
of the youth of their own land. Then the runners ret'tned, their 
reports were made, yet still the camp sat on in profound silence, have 
ing captures something of the spirit of the fire. 


(2) 


When finally the gathering did break up, we all returned to 
camp feeling thet we fad caught a broader vision of world friend- 
ship, and determined to lend our aid towards obtaining world peace. 


-0o00—- 


Notice to all Campers 


The Camp has hired detectives to trace down the many myster- 
ious case of dirty dishes being left by the sinks. And we'er warn- 
ing you - you guilty campers look out! 


-000- 
Another Notice 


To the first five boys applying to Chief Macdiarmid in the 
cottage before four o'clock Sunday morning, he will give one 
chocolate bar eache Remember now, there is a treat in store for 
yous 


-000= 


In bascball, Junior Camp has taken all the honours, They 
handed Senior Camp a neat Trimming - 24-3, although they found 
it more difficult to defeat the Staff 14-9. However, wait till 

they play the Juveniles - they'll get their! 


~0o00- 


On Thursday evening a fancy dress carnival was held, at which 
the following boys took prizes: Jimmy Hamilton as a savage tribes- 
man, Basil Burgess and Derrick Crossey as a rickshaw team, Bruce 
Johnson as a hula-hula dancer, Dickie Ott as a bandit, Junior Taylor 
as. aChinaman. 


-000- 


Advice to the Lovelorn 
by Dorothy Dix. 


Dear Miss Dix, 
I am planning on taking a trip on one of 
these new stableized steamships - will it cost me any more? 
Sincerely, yours, 
Dr. Crozier 


Dear Dr. Crozier, 
It may cost you more, but it won't be ex- 
penses you have to keep down on a sea tripe 


Dorothy Dix. 


(3) 


Dear Miss Dix, 
Is the modern girl any more quarrelsome 
than those of other years? 
Derrick Crossey 


My Dear Derrick, 
I don't think so - the modern girl is al- 
ways ready to make upe 
Dorothy Dix.. 


Dear Miss Dix, 

The tents in the Camp where I am staying are 
very draughty. I have worked day and night putting patches on it, 
but wherever I sit my hair is blown all over my head. What shall 
I do? 

Gordie Appleton 


Dear Gordie, 
Why not try getting your hair cut? 


Dorothy Dix. 
-0o00- 


The True Story of the Mighty Clouting Battle- 
The Chief & John Kidd vs Burgess & Crossey. 


There are many tales floating about as to what was the real 
cause of the unexpected defeat of the mighty golfers, Burgess & 
Crossey, by a very tired Cheif and an incapacitated business mana- 
gere Most of these tales, like all rumours, are not founded on 
fact, and have very little truth therein. 


It was left to your perspiring reporter to discover the truth 
the whole truth,and nothing but the truth, so help me. 


Being a bit perplexed by the confli@ting rumoums. ye reporter 
stole quietly up on the Chief's cottage steps and sat. himself down to 
think things over in the serene atmosphere that envelops the cottage. 


Suddenly his reverie was broken by the sound of a voice. It 
was the Chief's...eehe was having an afternoon napeeeand was talking 
in his sleep. 

“tie, ehe.-pretty luck on that last hole there, Basil, "Ninth hole and 
we'er tie, eh? "the chief was saying, “Pretty luckyon that last hole 
there, Basil....eif that stone hadn't been there I'd have sunk it on 
the 27th stroke instead of the 3th, and we'd have beaten you...well, 
go ahead, Derrick,....see if=you can find that last hole there in the 
GarkeeeeSCCitfecceit'S just over that stone pile.e..yes, just beneath 
the North Star..eethat's rightese..eaw, not bad.....in there by the 
old barn, eh?...ewell watch this...Wheee....it'S goinges eGOiNGececce 
straight to the holw....It's...whoa...ethe barni...e.the barnt It 3 


knocked the barn downeeeebOY, what & SHOtecee”  oeSNOTESe eee eSNOTCSeecce 


(4) 


And so fellows, the secret is out. All were tie on the ninth 
tee. Crossey drove off a beautiful dirve that landed against the 
barn, just beyond the greene Then the Chief drove out a smashing 
‘drive into the dusk. There was a hush, then a crack, the ball smash- 
ing against the barn, the barn started to totter, and finaaly crumbled, 
falling against Crossey's ball, thus making it impossible for him to 
play it out in few enough strokes to win. 


Crossey says that he and Burgess will win the next time, as the 
Chief won't be able to pull a fast one like that again. 


-o00- 


ohn bas many many giris for handsoue vrute he seems 


é ‘sels swéet_he ca his smiling~bean 
Here is id-steeped in thousht Here are the words wrote 
#6 ohly t = ust missed the boat: 


wien you~are near 
out of ofe that/is drear 
= es makes me Sonqueer 
ye dear. ~ 


O one mast fa most true 

When you"re aw am so bine — 

As is“you-blush 4 he table with mé 

I knew you must~join Iny family tree 
-o00= 


So Normie Richards has a book he just received to-day 

™On how to Dance’ in easy steps to chase your gloom away 
Stranger things have happened still within this camping week 
Once again on hot foot trail at John Pearson do we peek. 

For Weir one night did he set out to see his great desire 

But lost the trail to Morin Heights - nor can he call us liar. 
On, on, he trod with beating heart and mind built high with hope 
But he came out at Mile Hill's end - and now we call him dope. 


-o00- 


Then Thursday came and with it joy that took off every frown 

For loud was the cry in lustiness: "The circus is in town.” 

The Midway swayed with monied crowds Whose coppers they doled out 
And when a coin won one mpre prize it wes greeted with a shout 
Oranges off the orange tree kept falling in a pile 

Until a crop was harvested in too abundant style 

Each barker plied his penny trade with games of skill to test 

But worst of%all the Junior camp was so completely messed 

That loud were the wails of campers then who must gazink again 
And scavenge all the mess once more and work lil:e twice times ten. 


And so ends the "Green Triangle" for the year 1936. It 
has been a good paper and has filled its place in the camp 
life. The first issue for 1937 will be read on Saturday, 
June 28th, in camp. Here's hoping we'll all be there to 


hear ite 


CHRONICLES OF BITE THE FLEA...... 


SPECIAL FALL REUNION ISSWEX BULLETIN 


Hie «eGangecsse Gee, what a mobf Jumpin' Jehosaphat, when 
I heard the Business Manager chuckle to Brank Sharpe in that wcertain way of 
his, you know, the way he says, "Wwell, considering....this time...perhaps... 
but don't expect this as a regular thing..." Just that way he says to 
Frank Sharpe...."Well, considering the circumstancese..this times... 
perhaps....well, don't expect that there will be any less than 400 there at . 
the feed." 

“Four Hundreds exclaimed the great SChool Teacher¢g “Now John, 
youfre kidding me. Four hundred. Do you mean to tell me that I have 
to get up there before FOUR HUNDRED yuugpis and make a fodl of myself." 

"Ah no," replies the Business manager, spra ling on the frént 
steps of the Central Y.M.C.A (you'd think he was right at home there) "all you 
have to do, Frank, is to stand up there before the Four Hundred. The rest 
will take care of itself......the fool part.....just as usual....." 

xmayxfrienisy lexumextkatixyouyckierexwerexsignuyxofct ke xaskoot 
geacherxcomingxupxeoxk kexforrexxxxxx 

Weal Fellows, you've got no x idea how Frank looked then. Guess 
it was the school teacher in him. 

Gee, its great to be back with the old gang again. It sorta gets 
kinda lonely, you know, not seeing thaxfnteftsxsix Man Mountain, you know, the 

Chief.... everyday at meal times....... I do see him Occassionaly, but wither 
he mkx or the Business Manager are in such a hurrye...-doing other things....that 
its just a sort of passing visit. Then its nice sceing the Doc again. I had 
sorta lmost got to like the Doc's mustache (I travelled with he and the chief 


when tharz they were on their holidays, and believe me, you've got no idea 


2 
what those two are like,....when they get away together from camp. Why,you'd 
ha dly recognize themg.cee. But I decided against living with the @oc, or 
perhaps, I should say, On the Doc, (altho & that makes a sort of parasite) 
for two reasons. One is that the funny smells that there are about hospitals 
don't xaxkein partécularly appeal to me, and secondly, I don't think that a lot of 
those funny smelling stuffs are so good for my health. The Doc may be able 


to stand it, but after all, I'm only a Fleas... — 


I was down ig swimning with some of the Montreal West crowd...you 
know, that dumb gang of felle@ws who were in tent 3 junior..eyou know, Patterson, 
Fulton, Hardwick and that gang who used to make Harold Williams make red hair even 
redder with some of their stories...... They are still the same bunch of bad 
eggs, and spent most of the morning throwing Roddy Patterson in. But I've got 
a big secret that I leanrt this morning....a secret which is on the verge of 
changing all my mimtm plans. I'm even contemplating on going out to Montreal West 
to live. Here it is fellows. Don't breathe a word of it to any one. 

Its supposed to be a secret. Only you and I know about it. Don't tell, eh? 


Here it is. 
RODDY PATTERSON HAS THREE HAIRS ON HIS CHEST3!3! 


I'm moving up there next week. 


