Se 


Kanp Kanawana Saturday Auge 6, 1923 


ene 
ers ee 


een 
Se a Sa a Sak EES. SIRES BS 


CUCKOO DiY IS NOVEL EVENT 
The announcement of Cuckoo Day for Thursday, Yugust 4th was received with much 
uneasiness by the Camp: - who but the Camp Council knew whether we would be hauled 
out of bed at the unearthly hour of 5 aeme, or be allowed the blissful rest of an 
extra hour's sleep; whether we would have a moonlight dip at 10 deme, or at 4 Polly 
whether we would have porridge for supper, or salad for breakfast; whethereeee tle 


‘On the morning of this novel day, we awoke to find that the rising bell had 
gone at the usual time, and we thought that perheps this doy wasn't going to be so 


oh / euckoo after all. However we soon discovered our presumpt- 

E00 jon was incorrect, for soon after the camp had arisen, there 

ue cult was heard such a clenging of bells at regular intervals that 
2 according to the usual schedule the breakfast eommenced at 


the time for evening programe OF should we call it. break- 
fast? At any rate, the meal commenced with the announcements, 
during which time we had a ehance to look around us -~ putt~ 
er and jam were served on hugo trays, while the milk was 
placed hn open bowls; the milk jug on the staff table was & 
large eight gallon milk cen, into which their cups were ink 
formally dipped. 


Chief and the Doctor acted as waiters for the whole — 
camp, and when thetime came for the first course to be serv- 
ed, they unceremoniously placed a huge pan of porridge in 
the middle of the diming hall, from whieh the cempers filled their powls. Ina 
similer way the toast, (done on one side only) was served. 


Irmediately after this hectic meal, a half-hour boating periaqd was announced, 
all leaders being on patrol. With this crowd of leaders there were no row boats 
Left for the campers who stood on shore and gaped as the patrols enjoyed a pleasant 
outing. 

The bonting period over, tent clean-up and projects followed respectivelye At 
the tine of general swim, the leaders end staff enjoyed a long swin thile the campers 
aeted as patrols, who had a short swim afterwards. 


Evidently because of the chaotic conditions of breckfast, the dinner was served 
and eaten much more civiliy, but it was preceded with announcements and & sing-song- 


The afternoon program was © regatta which was well attended. Ail in all, we 
fool that the revival of this event was a great suecess, and should be made an 


SS Ekta eV baes 


aw. so. 


, , i eae aeoehst fh tT, ee 
) 


Calling all boyst Calling 211 boys’ Bring your t 
airplane models, plastic ine models, vases, trays, \ 
bookcases, Whisks, serviette rings, cork calen- « <n 
dars, caterpillars, horses teeth, boats, bugs, ire - a 
snakes, sketches, felt crests. fungi, fossils, et ~ os ‘ 
cetera to the craftshop to take place in the gigan= We she 
tic hobby show this coming Sundaye Enter your models 1 
in the airplane show, photographic negative contest 
or various other displays. There are prizes to be ae 
wone YOU may wint Your models will be safe in the : 
care of Tom Best until they are returned to yous You \ 
cantt loset Station KKC signing off. That is all. " 


The Craftshop 


COM ESTI 


Unscramble the letters in the following words and rearrange them to form 
a logical sentence: 


ROLYPO FO KEE TONCTES TEE TLAS SANREWED SVA- 


a eeninl 


MERRITT AND FRANCIS STAR IN SHOW 


Clarke Merritt and Lyman Francis put on én act in the Saturday Nite show 
which was undoubtedly one of the best this scasone Their part of the program 
took the form of tumbling, acrobatic dancing and sleight-of-hand tricks. Lyman 
awed the audience with his wonderful fire eating performance and added greatly 
to the standard of the Saturday Nite performances. 


The show commenced with a sing song led by Johnnie Pearson when some lusty 
singing was produced. This was followed by a few skits, among these being:- 
a short play of two acts by Walter Hesse and company, and s short skit by three 
juvenile leaders, Doug. Hill, Ross Seaman and Morrey Crosse Brock Brace then 
delivered a humorous monologue which was enthusiastically received. This show 
should be a criterion to be lived up to by the remaining Saturday Nite showSe 


— 


The camp has been fortunate in securing the services of Mr. John Ps lmer, 
and expert photographer from Toronto. His presence in Kenavana has added nuch 
to the enthusiasm for this hobby, and we expect to see in the near future many 
lesting pictures of the beautiful spots of the camp» yohn has also entered into 
gop activitics, al peeas to be enjoying himself as much as the campers are enjoy~ 


£ 
ite his stay. 


| ALL-CAMP REGATPA TS SUCCESS 


ee 


Last Tuesday, the camp held its first all-camp regatta of the season. The 


day startcd out unpromising, but cleared up just in time. The following are 
the events and the prizewinners: 


Juvenile war canoe: : 
Dick Matthews, Bill Dryden, Doug McGillis, Billy Lewis, Jim Ware, 
Sandy Spence, and Harry Hamilton (cox). 


Junior war canoe: 
. Ken Eaton, Ted Crossey, Jack Mackay, Robert Mahon, Billy Davis, 
John Smith, and Ted Percy (cox). 


Juvenile double row-boat: 
1. Billy Drycen, Harry Hamilton, and Dick Matthews. 
2. John Turner Bone, Norm Payne, and Jim Cartier. 
3. Doug English, Fred Thow, and Robert Dixon. 


Junior crab rece: Junior Doubles canoe: 
; - Ted Crossey 1. Crossey & Mackay 
2. Ted Percy 2. Cadenhead & Mahon 
3. Junior Taylor 3. Richardson & Hodgdon 
Senior singles canoe: Barrel race: : 
iL. Henry Holden 1. Henry Holden 
2, Jerry Wrenshall 2. Chief 


5. Ward Borrie 
Point Winners: 


Tilting: vuvenile: Harry Hamilton 
1. Hassal & Gray Billy Dryden 
ae Borrie & Smith Junior: Ted Crossey 
4. Knanvo & Holden Senior: Heury Holden 

FLEAS 


(With apologies to Joyce Kilmer) 


I think that I shall never see 

A&A bug as lively as a flea; 

A flea whose hungry mouth is pressed 
Lgainst a dog's smooth furry chest; 
A flea that clings to him all day, 
And bites him often in the usual way; 
A flea that may in summer tear 
iround quite freely in his hair. 
Upon whose bosom Flit wes lain, 

For certainly he must be slain. 
Poems are made by fools like me, 

But only dogs can harbour fleas. 


won oit 
BS Oso 


ae” 


ea 


