MF. YM. CA - Canada 


A SHORT HISTORY OF THE CANADIAN 


WITCH 
Ijgl - $944 


Prepared for the 


CANADIAN Y.M.C.A. STUDY COMMITTEE 


by 
Mn. HARRY BALLANTYNE, 
Yormer General Secretary, National Council of Y.M.C.A.'s in Canada. 


A SHORT HISTORY OF THE CANADIAN Y.M.C.A. 


1851 -- 1944 


I. FIRST HALF CENTURY 1851 - 1901 


Growth 


The development of the Young Men's Christian Association in Canada after its 
founding in Montreal in 1951 was astonishingly speedy. The comparative pr simity 
of Eastern Canada to England and the movement of business men to and from the 
Mother Country, where the establishment of the Young Men's Christian Association 
had been observed by visitors from Canada, was an important influence in the 
beginnings of Association work in the Lastern Area of Canada and especially in the 
Maritime Provinces, : 


Another potent factor was the responsiveness of laymen to an organization which 
focussed its attention and its objectives on the evangelization of youth, This 
social-historic period was one of egangelistic emphasis, 


A large nunber of Associations were organized in the first fifty vears, many 
of which did not long survive. At the Indianapolis Intemational Convention in 1870 
it was reported that there rere 85 Associations in the Maritime Provinces of Canada. 
In 1900 there were only 49 City and Railroad, and 24 Student Associations in Canada. 


Leadership 


Many of these early Associations were in small centres. Secretaries were not 
usually employed and the members carried on the activities, mainly of a religious 
character, with zeal and vigor, It is noticeable in convention and other reports 
to disenver that as the Association grew in numbers and its program enlarged, the 
common reason advanced for non-success and waning interest was that of lack of time 
on the vart of laymen to give sufficient lcadership to the enterprise and the 
consequent need for competent secretaries. The Corresponding Secretary for Ontario 
of the International Committee reported to the International Convention in 1875: 
"Associations are dying because of scarcity of secretaries," One Association was 

. said to have "died of an excess of literary enthusiasm.” 


Supervision 


It early became apparent that some central agency of the local Associations 
which were independent, autonomous bodics, was necessary in order to exchange ex~- 
periences and views, and to extend the Movement to new centres, In accordance with 
this idea, the first convention of North American (U.S. and Canada) Associations 
was held at Buffalo, N.Y, in 1854, at which a central Confederation Committee, with 
headquarters in New York, was elected, and a secretary, Rev. William Chauncy Langdon, 
appointed, In 1855 the first World's Conference was held at Paris, France, In 1863, 


the Confederation Committee was re-organized as the International Committee, In 
1878 the World's Alliance was organized at, Geneva, Switzerland. It is a Confedcr- 
ation of national bodies, In Canada, Provincial Committees were organized in the 
Maritime Provinces, Ontario, and Quebec, in 1884. 


Highlights 


The historical development of this period, in both Canada and the United States 
may be described by indicating some of the "first beginnings" in Association life: 


1867 


1869 


1871 
1872 
1873 
1883 
1885 
1887 
1889 
1892 
1892 
1900 


‘1900 


Program 


First Association building erected - Chicago. 


First Association building erected with gymnasiums - San Francisco, 
New York. 


First General Secretariest Association of U.S. and Canada. 
First Railroad Association - Cleveland, Ohio, 

First permanent Boys' Work - Montreal. 

First Canadian Travelling Secretary - TT. S. Cole 

First Training School - Springfield, Mass. 

First Field Secretary - Physical Work - Dr, Luther Guleck. 
First World Services Secretaries appointcd. 

First Year Book published. 

First Field Secretary for Educational Work appointed. 
First Field Secretary for Boys' Work appointed. 


First Field Secretary for Religious Work appointed. 


Until about 1880 the progrem of local Associations was confined largely to 
typical religious activities, such as: 


Bible Classes 
Saturday Night and Sunday Cottage Prayer Meetings. 
Street Preaching - At the Toronto Convention in 1876 George Williams 


spoke at such a meeting. 


Prison Visitations 

Evangelistic Meetings 

Temperance Societies and Pledges 
Noon Day Meetings 


Work for boys as well as men was introduced into the Y.M.C.A. program and 
spread extensively in the North American Movement, For the last twenty years of 
the nineteenth century, this age group activity gradually became woven into the 


a 


accepted pattern. The idea of man's four-fold development took root and its place 
in activities is indicated by the appointment of Local and Field Departmental 
Secretaries in the Physical, Educational, and Religious areas, To serve these 
fundamental aspects of the growth of boys and men, wise leaders soon saw the 
necessity for the integration of body, mind, and spirit in relation to the life of 
youth, and gave their attention to providing facilities and stimulating ambition 
toward the development of a well-balanced personality. Furthermore, as the 
Association came to occupy an important place in the life of the community, it 
became clear that only a program dealing with these major interests of boys and 

men would be attractive and offer the i1eans of satisfactory growth. It was realized 
that to continue the almost exclusive religious activities and ignore bodily develop- 
ment as well as mental growth, would put limitations on the Association's useful- 
ness to young men, and affect its definite religious objectives by inability to 
attract meh to its ranks. Furthermére, to pursue such a course would probably lead 
to the establishment of a new sect or church. 


From this brief description of the first half century it will be noted that 
the Association idea found a favorable response in our country, that local and | 
inter-Associational organization developed steadily along co-operative lines, that 
employed secretaries were found essential to prosress, and that while evangelism 
continued to be the predominating motive, it was also realized that boys and men 
had related needs in social, physical and mental growth which must be recognized. 


II. FIRST QUARTER OF 20TH CENTURY 


The period from 1901 to 1925 is described as a unit, first for the reason that 
the year 1912 marked the orgenization of a National Council in Canada, independent of 
the International Committee, under whose aegis our Movement had been supervised since 
the year 1854, and second, to include the Great War years and those immediately 
following, with which the new Council was confronted just after its establishment. 


Program 


In general the program activities of the Association followed rather closely 
the principles which had been adopted in the last decade of the 19th century, namely 
that of the four-fold scheme of physical, educational, social, and religious work. 
As the volume of departmental activities steadily enlarged, new methods and techniques 
were developed and field specialists were trained and engaged to give leadership. 
The Association became noted for its ability to provide e varied leisure-time program 
which stimulated boys and men in physical, educational, vocational and social self- 
improvement, At the same time, Evangelism (of a mass and personal character) and 
Bible Study were promoted through a special Religious Department, with as much vigor 
and enthusiasm as in the carlier years. In addition, service to special classes 
were inaugurated and grew rapidly. Groups such as railroad men and men in industry 
were regarded as part of tho Association constituency. 


In the generation under review, membership with boys’, physical, educational, 
social and religious activities enlarged substantially, In 1901 membership was 
4,220 boys and 14,275 men - 18,495 total, In 1924, boys 15,185, and mon 26,625 - 
‘total 41,810. Boys attending Bible classes in 1901, 7,015; physical classes, 1,840, 
as compared with 5,445 and 8,757 in 1924, lien in physical classes in 1901, 4,975 
and in 1924, 9,321. Men in educational classes in 1901, 1,306, and in 1924, 1,612. 
Attendance at all religious meetings and Bible classes - in 1901, 116 ,900,and 
238,700 in 1924, These statistics reveal the splendid growth of the main aspects of 
Association program, In addition, many other informal activities in the social and 
entertainment area, in reading room and library facilitics; in swimming and life 
saving; lectures and practical talks, shop meetings, etc. vere carried on. 


Summer camping for boys was an early progran foature which grew steadily in 
scope and importance. At first it was mainly recreational and religious in character 
and directed by adults. Gradually its activities were broadened to include formal 
education, arts and crafts, woodcrait, ctc. and its management and control was 
gradually transferred under guidance to the boys themselves, Instead of a “camp"’ 
it is now a "school" of co-operative living and its Christian character influence 
is powerful, In 1942, 5,835 boys attended camps conducted by Canadian Associations 
with a total of 95,360 camper days. Holiday camping for young men and women with a 
program of informal educational activities has also begun to attain a significant 
place in the life of the Association. 


This program pattern determined the equipment and character of buildings, 
necessitating the provision of gymnasiums, swimming pools, educational class rooms, 
bowling alleys, etc. and dormitories to meet the housing demand for many young men 
living away from home. 


ade 


Supervisory Organization 


In 1908 the International Committee appointed a Field Secretary to serve the 
Associations in Canada. A new development took place in 1912 when the National 
Council of Canada was formed by the merging of the Canadian section of the Inter- 
national Committee and three regional Committees - Ontario and Quebec, the Maritime 
Provinces, and Western Canada organized earlier by the Associations in these areas, — 
Two leaders of the International Committee, Gencral Secretary R. C. Morse and John 
R. Mott, were moving spirits in this plan. Close fraternal relationships were 
continued with the National Council of the United States (organized later) and 
Canada, has continucd to be an integral part of the International Committee, especial- 
ly in relation to Foreign, or World Service Work. The Council also became one of 
the national units in the World's Alliance. The newly organized Council started 
on its career with twelve secretaries whose positions wore described as follows: 

One General Secretary, one Territorial, or Area Secretary in each of the following 
regions: Eastern, Central, and Western Canada, two Boys' Secretaries, one 
Transportation Secretary, one Physical Secretary, one Immigration Secretary, one 
Ficld Secretary, two Special Secretaries, Charles W. Bishop, Student Secretary of 
the International Committee was apvointed the first General Secretary, In ans BS) 

at the close of the Great War I, the stcff had srom to include 40 men engaged in 
national work, as follows: 


General and Assistant Secretary at Headquarters 


Four Territorial Secretarics in the Maritimes, Ontario and Quebec, 
General West, and ‘est. 


Two Transportation Scerctaries 
Thirteen Boys’ Secretarics 

Five Industrial Secretarics 

Six District Secretaries 

Three special Financial Sccerctaries 
One Publicity Secretary. 


It will be apparent from this that the Movement in Canada, through its National 
Council, had embarked upon a course aimed at intensifying existing Association 
eectivitics and extending Association service to new groups of boys and young men 
net heretofore included in its operations, It was a properly ambitious endeavour 
to adequately measure up to the total opportunities and responsibilitics in Canada. 
The progress made was cncouraging and if continued would have resulted in large 
Association growth in our country. Like most of the other post-war projected plans 
in the business, educational, religious, and governmental fields, the economic 
depression hindered the accomplishment, The Association enterprise was likewise 
retarded, and for a number of years afterward the onergy of the leaders was directed 
to defensively “holding the fort." 


“b= 
Extension 


The structural and functional aspects of the work did not undergo any specially 
striking changes, The sylondid growth and place of Boys’ Work did, however, broaden 
objectives and demand internal adjustments of building space and leadership. At the 
end of the first fifty years (1901) 49 City and Railroad Associations were in ex- 
istence across Canada, In 1912 when our work was nationalized, 70 similar 
organizations were listed, The 24 Student Associations operated in 1901 had now 
become the Student Christian Movement of Canada. The losses in City and Town 
Associations in this period were heavy, about 16 in number, mostly in Ontario and 

he Maritime Provinces, They were nearly all in small centres of population under 
five thousand, involving the problem of financing and retaining trained employed 
Secretarial leadership. The new Associations established were all in centres where 
the population was at least ten thousand and where numerical growth was assured by 
location and business conditions, Many of them were in Western Canada. The 
relationship between adequate community financial resources, trained secretarial 
leadership, and Association permanency is clearly revealed in our history. 


In the closing years of this period, following the end of World War I, a new 
type of Association was started in Canada, namely County or Rural Work. It got 
underway in the United States earlier, in the year 1903, and a few units which did 
not survive were organized in the Maritimes and Ontario, but these were short~lived. 
A natural conception of the possibilities of extending Association work to rural 
areas was an outcome of World War I. ‘The service provided to Canadian soldiers at 
home and abroad, the knowledge of our work acquired by young men in the Armed 
Services, and the general public, and a conviction that boys and men in small com- 
munities and rural districts could be served just as had our soldiers, led toa 
serious attempt to organize counties or inter-communities in all parts of Canada 
with trained secretarial personnel, It seemed as if the plan could be highly success- 
ful and meet a real need of boys and men located outside of large centres of popu- 
lation. Yora time, five Field Secretaries were cmployed and, in a couple of years, 
ten County or Inter-Community Associations were started. Many problems were en- 
countcred which, in time, might have been solved, but the post-war business boom was 
succeeded by the disastrous business depression and lack of finances compelled the 
dropping of Field Secretarial leadership so necessary to stimulate, nurture, and 
guide the project. Ina short time, all the ground that was cultivated with great 
hope and expectation dried up for went of nourishment. ; 


Relationships 


Since its founding, the Y.M.C.A. had maintained very little relationship with 
government bodies except in war emergencies, In summer training camps for the Militia, 
in service to Canadian Mounted Rifles in the South African War (1900), and notably : 
in the Great War (1914 - 1918) the Canadian Association Movement rendered valuable 
services in co-operation with the Government and with their endorsation. The record 
of achievement of the Canadian Y.M.C.A. in ingland and i'rance in the first World War 
is an illustrious one, The highest commendations were heartily given by ranking 
officers of the Canadian and inglish armies, and the Government officially recorded 
their grateful appreciation, This chapter in the history of the Canadian Movement, 
following almost immediately after the organization of our Associations nationally 
was a truly great achievement in adaptation, management, and ingenuity. It illus- 
trates the awareness and alortness of the organization in mceting special needs of 
the boys and men who are its field and force, 


-7< 


Another by-product of war work, stemming from experiences and indicating far- 
Sighted vision, was the creation, by the Y.M.C.A., of a program for boys, called 
Canadian Standard Efficiency Training, or Tuxis and Trail Rangers, which swept the 
country,: being adopted not only by the Associations but also in the Protestant 
Churches. Association Boys' Work took on new life, as a result, and extensive 
service to young citizens of Canada, whose needs and possibilities had been high-~ 
lighted by the aftermath of war, was organized on a comprehensive scale, A new 
national boys' organization, name¢ the Boys' Work Board was projected to which the 
Association and churches gave leadership and financial support, but its career 
was also seriously affected by financial shortages and consequent depletion of 
leadership. The program continued, however, to have a considerable place in church 
boys’ work, Relationships with the churches which, historically, had been one of 
friendly loyalty, but without official status, wore strcngthened through this ex- 
pericnce, 


Buildings and Financing 


The period was one of great difficulty respecting buildings, equipment, and 
finances, Before the war, between 1905 end 1914, steady progress was maintained in 
erecting new buildings, Building funds were raised and new structures erected, War, 
however, diverted funds to patriotic purposes, living costs climbed steadily, and 
direct war enterprises of various kinds made heavy demands upon philanthropy. The 
disruption of business, in the immediate vost-war period, followed by boom con- 
ditions and latterly by the depression, drastically lowered the financial reservoir 
available to private agencies, with the consequence that many Association buildings 
deteriorated, debts accumulated, and new enterprises avaited better conditions. The 
intensive short-term financial campaign became the standard method of raising sub- 
scriptions. The association has recently, in most cities, become identified with 
Community Chests in securing public subscription support. Notwithstanding this 
Situation, though a few Associations were elmost mortally wounded, no Association 
succumbed, and all were able to weather the storm. This fact is a tribute to the 
quality of both lay and secretarial leadershiy, and indicates how strong a hold the 
Movement had in public estimation, 


Membership 


Membership participation and control cngaged attention es never before. The 
aecepted policy of the past, designating members active (church members) and 
associate (non-church) members, camo under analysis. Many of the latter were more 
active and interested in Association activities tian the former, In practice 
there was little differentiation except that active members had voting powers. Few 
members actually voted anyway, the policies being shaped by secretaries and Board 
members, fn attempt was made to make membership meaningful by a plan of committment 
to the purpose, through enrolment. The idea did not catch fire to any great extent 
and looseness regarding tic conception of membership rights and duties continued 
to prevail. One of the factors in this membership problem centered around the 
association purpose as described in the Paris Basis which was thcological in ter- 
minology. A new simplified statement of purpose, which greetly clarified the 
matter, was adopted, first in Canada, as follows: "The Young Men’s Christian Associa- 
tion is a world-wide fellowship of men and boys united by cormon loyalty to Jesus 
Curist for the purpose of building Christian personality and a Christian society," 
Control of the Association, as a result of this menbership develonment was broadened 
to make it possible to include not only those who were members of evangelical 
churches, but any member who subscribed to the purposes of the .ssociation. 


ae 


Leadership 


A brief comment on leadership, lay and secretarial, should be made, as tools 
without planners and technicians are impotent. Secretarial standards have pro- 
gressively risen. An early doscription of the secretaryship of the Young Men's 
Christian Association says: "A candidate should possess a certain natural fitness 
for the position, have a genuine belief in, and love for, work among young men, and 
a willingness to give his life to the service. He should be young, possess good 
health and good personality, Educationally he should have a common school, or 
still better a high school or collegiate course, He should be well mannered, should 
be a good business man and a good housckeeper and above everything olse he should be 
of irreproachable Chvistian character and a member of, and intelligent respecting, 
the cardinal doctrines of, the evangelical church," These-characteristics remain 
as essential requirancnts for the secretaryship, The educational standards have, 
however, in the course of time, been raised to college education or its equivalent 
and many men now entering the secretarvship have post-graduate standing. Further- 
more, a two year probationary period in service as a junior secretary, to test 
suitability, is required before a person can become an accepted secretary. These 
new standards were adopted in recognition of the proven fact in the history of the 
Association that professional leadership is the key to successful development. The 
secretary needs a background of broad knowledge, mental discipline, and vision, to 
cope with the complex needs of persons, socicty, and the growing conception of the 
universe. The possession of such qualities, when coupled with a basic Christian 
character and a motivation of deep concern for youth, ensures a strong and 
cfficient secretarial leadership. 


The number of volunteer committee men grew from 2,980 in 1901 to 4,405 in 1924, 
and secretaries from 82 to 220. A vital Summer School, providing training, retrain- 
ing, and inspiring of employed officers had been established at Lake Couchiching 
about 1900, and operated with increasing effectiveness. It became the rallying 
centre of men desiring to enter professional Association service, end for men already 
in, and,to a considerable extent, for laymen. This project has alvays been an in- 
valuable influence, not only in the enrichment of leadership, but in the study of new 
means and methods, 3 


An outstanding developmont by the Association in the United States end Canada 
was established in 1922, nemely the Y.M,C.A. Retirement Fund. The provision of a 
pension fund for secretaries over 60 years of age ensured the continuous service of 
professional leadership. 


Summary 


This period of our history was one of slower external growth but of internel 
expansion and adaptetion. The program was enlarged and refined; co-operative 
orginization for the purpose of sharing experiences, estrblishing standards, and 
extension to new local fields was a prominent development. Some Associations es- 
tablished earlier in the enthusiasm of a new cause without strong foundations fell 
by the wayside. A new type of Association to serve the small communities and rural 
areas sprang up as an aftermath of Association War Service but before becoming 
soundly established, this laudable effort had to be abandoned because of the economic 
situation, Relationships with tho Government in war work and with the churches in 
boys' work were deepened and broadened, Financing and building upkeep were drastically 
affected by sub-normal business conditions, Membership in the Association became a 
more vital and meaningful factor of development, Abler men were enlisted, and train- 
ing processes inaugurated to fit mon for Association life work, 


III. THis LAST TWINTY YEARS - 1924 - 1944 


Extension 


During the depression years of the late 20's economic difficulties retarded both 
internal and external expansion, although during the period there were a few fine 
examples of courageous forward steps and action, Not many new Associations were or- 
ganized in Canada between 1924 and 1944, In 1925 there were 70 Canadian Associations, 
including 2 county organizations, while in 1942 there were 79, The two county 
Associations, (there were 10 in 1920) had now ceased to exist and two others, one of 
them a Railroad Association and the other at St, John's, Newfoundland,( which had been 
organized under Canadian auspices) were also discontinued, The new Associations 
organized were of three types: (a) in cities where there had not before been any; 

(b) Community Branches in cities; and (c) Industrial Associations mainly related to 
war manufacturing. Canadian Associations in 1925 reported programs in 177 industrial 
plants, with 2,660 events, including Bible classos, sports program and lectures. 

This kind of service continued with more or less vigorous promotion after the war, 

but gradually declined until the Great War II, It has recently been revived in a few 
large industrial towns where Y.M.C.A. secretaries have been engaged at the request | 

of the companies, 


Total membership srowth in the 20 year poriod was small. In 1922 there were 
15,906 boys (under 17) and 25,429 men - total 41,335. In 1942 there were 18,459 
boys and 22,866 men - total 41,525. Boys' membership increased and men's membership 
decreased, However, it should be explained that in 1942 "the Association also served 
6,275 girls and women and a further number of 6,323 registered non-members, This 
new field of service indicates an interesting change in relation to the accepted 
constituency of the Association which definitcly affects both its nlace in the com- 
munity and its leadership and constituency located outside the building. This in- 
clusion of girls and women was the result of the development of co-educational 
intercsts, both sexes desiring joint activitics in social and study programs, Service 
to the whole family was also a factor, Co-operation with the Young Women's Christian 
Association was carefully considered, and a general agrecment entered into, particu- 
larly in the establishment by either the Y.W.C.A. or Y.M.C.A. of Associations in new 
communities, This trend in the development of providing a program for both sexts 
and for families is one which may have a largo influence on the future of the Movement 
and will affect objectives and policies, 


Only seven new buildings have been ercetod in the last two decades, At Verdun 
and Notre Dame de Grace, in Metropolitan Montreal, Acton, Sudbury, and Windsor, in 
Ontario; Sydney, Nova Scotia; and Vancouver, B,C, ‘Three of these have been enlarge~ 
monts or replacements of present buildings, the others are entirely new structures, 
In these new buildings some recognition has been given to new functional Association 
developments by provision of facilities for co-education and family service and 
combinations of space to provide for informal educational, dramatic, and social 
activities, 


The scope of the Association, by organizing community programs in sections of 
urban communities somevhat remote from existing buildings headquarters has, in 
recent years, been increased and cnlarged. A standard policy respecting the use of 
new or acquired building centres in such areas has not, as yet, been reached. Many 
of these projects have a simple office headquarters with activities carried on in 
tie open air, in churches, and in schools, 


wite 


Program 


It may help some in illustrating changes in emphasis, and perhaps in objectives, 
to present a picture of what took place with respect to the three-fold purpose in- 
dicated by our Red Triangle emblem of BODY, MIND, AND SPIRIT, in the decade of 1922 
to 1932, for which comparisons in the following areas are available, 


1922 inrolments Physical 1932 
Classes 22,2495 25,519 
a Educational 2,775 * 1,292 
. Attendance Bible Classes 204,100 * 36,900 


& Religious Meetings 


Educational activities slow a large reduction which is accounted for by the 
fact that in 1922, 2& Associations were conducting formal educational program, while 
ten years later only 14 Associations had organized activities in this ficld. One 
important factor which needs to be taken into account was the rise and growth of 
night classes in the public school systems and vocational instruction by business 
colleges. A notable development in formal educational program took place in the 
wlontveal Association, namely, the organization of college work, Sir George Williams 
College is an accredited degree-conferring college, providing dey and evening classes, 
located in the Y.M.C.A. and directed by the Association. 


The figures quoted for Bible classes and religious mcetings specifically so 
labelled indicate a huge decrease, Manv of these gatherings «:cre held, in 1922, 
outside the building and open to public participation, while ten years later most of 
these classes or meetings were conducted in the building and related solely to the 
mombership. Furthermore, the conception of religion as a separate activity underwent 
a change and an attempt was made to include religious implications in all group 
activities, 


In describing program activities, a change since about 1932 in the system of 
reporting makes it difficult to exactly cotpare progress, item by item, and to thereby 
indicate changes in emphasis, laterly "groun" organization including those enrolled 
in gymnasium classes, swimaing, and other physical interests, in social, educational, 
religious, and other activity areas constitute the prevailing method of tabulating 
operations. In 1942 there were 5,167 groups in the Canadian Associations, with a total 
enrolment of 109,673 persons in the membership, and 29,599 persons outside membership. 
The "group" idea is perhaps the most significant development of late years, involving 
the significant principles of democratic member planning and self direction and control. 


The enrolment in the groups, if segregated into physical, social, and educational 
classifications formerly prevailing, would, we believe, show substantial numerical 
gains over the previous decade in the number of participants. Furthermore, the present 
type of program reveals a much better balance in meeting the all-round personality 
needs of members. In the realm of religious activity formerly described as meetings 
and Bible classes, there is a definite decrease in this type of event. Specific iso- 
lated religious activities have been superseded by an endeavour to emphasize Christian 
principles in every activity and to thereby integrate religion with life situations, 
Some Association leaders and sympathetic onlookers feel that because of preoccupation 
with, and development of, new forms of program activities, we have tended to lose 
religious zeal and passion, 


Two outstanding program developments have marked the last ten or more years, 
The first one is Hi-Y clubs, an outgrowth of the Boys' Department and vigorously 
fostered by them. Membership in these clubs of selected high school students has 
favorably affected the spirit and atmosphere of school life. In 1942 there were 
110 clubs in 41 Association centres throughout Canada, with an enrolment of 2,958, 
These are potential Association lay and secretarial leaders. 


The second noteworthy advance in program is in the Young Men's section. These 
members, between 18 and 25 years of age,are the descendants of the group with, and 
for whom, Sir George Williams worked in founding the Association, The plan gives 
prominence to that constituency which is the backbone of our Movement. Their 
distinctive needs are acute and their co-operation in citizenship the most vital. 
Three hundred and thirty-six young men's groups in 25 Association centres are now 
organized around youth necds and the idea is spreading rapidly. 


Economic and international problems, unemployment coupled with insecurity, the 
part played by young men in World Wer I, and the appearance on the world stage of 
World War II, accorypanicd by new philosophies and systoms of government, had a deep 
effect upon the minds and spirits of youth in this generation. The young men in 
the membership of the Young Men's Christian Association began to exhibit as never 
before a rising interest in social education, with the result that programs were 
enlarged to include activities and studies in questions of citizenship in the 
national and international field, systoms and mothods of government, equality of 
opportunity, economic security, etc. In other words, the pattern of Association 
activities which, until this time, had been concerned mainly with the personal growth 
of the individual broadened in conception to include responsibility for the growth 
of understanding of young men respecting economic, social, and political conditions 
in relation to the establishment of a Christian society, This enlarged concept of 
its functions makes the Young Men's Christian Association a significant religious 
cducation organization. A powerful influence in develoving this idea was the estab- 
lishment by the Y.ii.C.A. of the Canadian Institute of Economic Affairs, which has 
operated each summer under Y.M.C.A. auspices at Geneva Park, Lake Couchiching, Ontario, 
presenting what might be called a study course on the level of a summer university 
session, It has become an informative, stimulating, progressive forum for the 
discussion of Canadian internal affairs and international relationships. 


An event which entered into the warp and woof of the Canadian Association 
onterprise brought together in Canada, in the year 1931, a World Conference under 
the auspices of the World Alliance, of boys and men from many lands, The preparation 
for this conference entailed intensive preliminary studies. The discussions and 
addresses at the conference itself and the comprehensive reports thereof, about 
religious, racial, and social and international life, permeated activities and left 
an invaluable impression on the program, 


Relationships 


These developments in serving the boys, youth, and men of our Canadian communities 
have taken place in a social scene where other clubs and organizations of various 
kinds were also operating and where the church was likewise increasingly cndeavoring 
to serve its boys and young people. The Association docs not compete with the church 
ease OUT endeavor is to give assistance by inspiring and training leaders for the 
church and community, Secretaries are often active church workers, The management 
of the Association is under the direction of church members and its activities are 
endorsed by ministers of all denominations. Relationship with the church in recent 
years has not, however, been intimate. There have not been enough co-operative 
causes in which both could join. As our objectivos are spiritual, aimed at Christian 
persons and a Christian socicty, the Y.M.C.A. must maintain a close relationship with 
the Christian church, 


-12- 


Guidance 


This historical sketch of the Association in Canada would be incomplete and 
unfinished without reference to another phase of service, namély personal counselling, 
which has been informally in the picture for years, especially in mattors of religion, 
and which has been enlarged to include treatment of citizenship, vocational, physical, 
family, and religious problems of young men and boys who are finding their way in 
the world. Nearly 48,000 individuals were interviewed through the Canadian Associa~ 
tions in 1942. It is in this shift from mass to group and personal service that the 
Movement is likely to find its most useful place in the life of Canade, 


Local Organization 


The organizational set-up involving a Board of Directors to give general 
guidance of the Association has not chenged to any extent in the 20th century although 
a real effort has been made to meke the governing body representative of all community 
interests and to include thereon younger as well as older men, As the plan of 
program activitics developed, a pattern of departmental committces for recreation, 
education, citizenship, public relations, etc, became standard practice, Thore is 
a later tendency, now apparent, toward onc departmental committee for each of the 
phases of work, instead of separate ones for boys and young men and men. Personnel 
Committees, dealing with employed professional and non-professional people are 
growing in importance and acceptance, Many sub-committees, as House or Property, 
Business, Community, Zxtension, ete. are organized as needed to meet the local 
Situation. 


Summary 


In reviewing this last period the main impression is one of striking internal 
development rather than large external enlargement, There has been a modest 
extension to new fields but the advance has been within, not without, the Association. 
New methods marked by self. created rather than imposed or mechanically determined 
activities, have developed wonderful renewed interest in the part: of the membership 
and added realism to what we do. The note of collective interest and sociel action 
has been strongly sounded. The exclusive policy of an organization concerned only 
with males has changed to include females and the family in our orbit. Highly 
trained and qualified leadership has come to be again, as in the first quarter century, 
as essential to success, Spiritual purposes and aims have shifted from individual 
to co-operative responsibility. We have returned to the starting point of the 
#ssociation Movement and are thinking and planning again in terms of the needs, place, 
and potentiality of youth facing a new world, 


