CHIEF: 


MelleCoAe Kamp Kenawana Broadcast — Station g,. d.. 
Thursday 8.50 P.M., June 26th 1941, 


The 48th season of Kemp Kanawana, the Montreal Y.M.C.A. Boys“ 
camp situated in the Laurent ion Mountains opens Saturday June 28th. 
This evening there may be in the radio audience sone parents who 
have not yet ma@s plans for their sons! summer vacation. It may be 
that you have never visited a boys“ camp and that you are not certain 
as to what your son may expect from a camping experience, Not many 
years ago boys went away to the North Country to "rough it" to throw 
off all the conventions known to youth in the City. You may wonder 
if camping has changed. You may likewise be asking is your son as 
safe at c as in the city. Today it is a well known fact that boys 
are safer at a well organized camp than they are iether at home in the 
city or away at a suomer resort. At camp every activity is closely 
checked from a standpoint of safety. From a standpoint of health and 
accident the well supervised camp presents enly a smell fraction of the 
hazards boys face when under their own direction on the streets or at 
a private summer home. The reason of course for this is trained leader 
ship, trained instructors, careful supervision and daily instruction, 
At Kanawana Qualified life guards not only supervise swimming periods 
but do a great deal toward toward helping campers take care of themselves 
in the water. Last season the Montreal T. M. O. A. boys camp had a 
record year in swimming and life saving instruction. Ninty life saving 
awards both Royal Life Saving Society and T. M. C. A. were won by Kenawana 


AN OUNCER ¢ 


CHIEF: 


ANN OUNCER 


CHIEF: 


campers. Included in the awarde were Royal Life saving Sijver Medallions, 
and T. H. C. A. Senior awards. Camp does provide the ideal situation for 
boys to learn . mis most popular and healthful skill. 
Directors of Kaneawana insure good leadership in this phase of the camp 
program by requiring every counsellor to have ea life saving certificate 
or be capable of passing the required test. These counsellors teach 
swimming to those who are beggining and assist those who seek to better 
their skill. oar Aatety measures in the water are of vital importance 
in a camp program. Kaup Kanawena may well be proud of an efficiently 
organized system of patrolling. Ten qualified leaders patrol general 
swims and ere well posted to meet any emergency in the water. Our 
desire to maintain a high standard of efficiency is your assurance of 
a safe holiday for your 4. Last season the camp had a total of 

one hundred and three non-swimmers. Of this group fifty-five passed 
swimming tests, four completing te “eross the lake swim" before the 
camp closeds 

Mr. Langille if you are asked what important feature you would 
take into account if you were selecting a boys camp, what would be your 
answer? 

Since I have already referred to the importance of safety I would 
answer your question by saying Leadership would be my first concern. 
I personnally would wantto know the staff and counsellors conducting the 
camp, their training „experience and enthusiasm in counselling boys. 

I would like to ask, do most boys camps conduct a counsellors 
training course? 

All progressive boys camps today give major attention to training 
counsellors for the great responsibility that is theirs. b Kanawana 
has this year conducted a training course for the fifty-eight ‘counsellors 


who have hopes of being selected for leadership at Kanawana. 


ANNOUNCER 3 


CHIEF: 


2 
Mr. Langille, you mention training fifty-eight counsellors. Do 
you suggest that this large number of counsellors go to your camp? 
Not all. Our personell Committee of which lr. J. We Perks, Assistant 
Superintendent of the Protestant School Board is the chairman, selects 
forty five of the most promissing and experienced leaders, ‘There are 
also a mumber selected as Assistant counselors. Our youngest group to 
receive leadership training are known as Counsellors in Training, and 
are selected from our moat experienced campers. Of course it is the 
hope and ambition of each of these to become a counsellor after several 
years of experience ani training. While initiative and self reliance 
on the part of counsellors is greatly encouraged, camp traditions do 
exebt a tremendous influence on our camp counsellors, The Montreal 
I. M. C. A. has been aperat ing a boys camp for forty eight years and 
naturally over such a period of time traditions develoye. Kanawana is 
proud of its traditions. Fathers coming to camp refer to the "good 
old days“ at Kanewana, Theit ns, either campers or counsellors, are 
just as proud of the cemp traditions, and camps' spirit, What I am 
trying to say is mech better expressed in a farewell letter whitten by 
two of our Junior counsellors last year. It reads? 
"Farewell to the staff, counsellors, and campers, who, one and 
all, ade our visit one to be remembered. Tomorrow we are 
leaving dear old Kanawana, leaving behind fond faces, but taking 
back with us memories that will be cherished and retained in our 
uppermost thoughts. Friendships formed in camp should always be. 
The spirit, work and play of the camp is so blended that our 
stay at Kanawana has been extremely enjoyable, and always will 
be cherished. 
Camp life here at this unique location, the whispering trees and 
lapping water ever aid the strengthening of spirit, mind and body, 
the theme of Kanawana life. 


* 


_ ANNOUNCER: 


CHIEF: 


<4 


On parting we are taking with us the hope that some day we will 
return to tread the comping grounds onee mor and enter into its 
full life and happiness. 

Until then we bid our fondest good-byes. 


Deve & Don, | 
Jukior Counsellors 1940 

Well it certainly sounds as though teeperet an an 
enjoyable one at Kanawana, Would you care to express yourself regarding 
the indications of a successful season at Kanawana this year? 

Yes, most certainly. I fecl quite optimistic about this season's 
camp.e First of all our staff of sixty eight people has been carefully 
selected and are an outstandiug group, each one experienced in camping 
and selected because of his genuine interest in boys. Secondly it is 
Kemp Kanauann 's privilege this year to have thirty or more evacuees in 
camp; boys from England, Scotland and European countries. Kanawana has 
frequently been referred to as an international boy's ceamp.. The 
contribution to camp life made by other than Canadian boys at Kanawana 
has indeed been important throughout the history of the camp. 

Carpenters have been at work fr the past two months and have been 

assisted lately by an advance party of fourteen counsellors in preparing 

the camp for the first group of approximately one hundred campers who 

come to camp this Saturday. Aé/f¢/ registrations are 

thirty per cent higher at this date than they were at this time last year, 
however, registrations will definitely be restricted throughout the sumer 

to prevent overcrowding. Parents considering sending their son to Kana- 

wana should make reservation as earl y as pessible so as not to be 
dissapointed. Information concerning the camp can be secured and registrations 
made at any branch of the T. M. C. A. or phone the Kanawana office at Ma. 8331. 


~5= 
ANNOUNCER: Thank you Mr. Langille, Ladies and Gentleman, tonight you have heard 
the chief and Director of Kamp Kanawana speak to us concerning the well- 
known and popular boys summer paradise ~ Kemp Kanawanae 
Fullest details will be gladly mailed to interested listeners by phoning 
Ma, 8351 or to any one of the various branches of the T. U. C. 4. 
Kamp Kanawana opens Seturday June 28th, and continues until August 25rd. 


Be sure your boy registers early and have him enjoy the vacation of vacations. 


—ů— 


