===== Summer Camp Jobs  (https://www.ymcaquebec.org/en/summer-camp-kanawana/jobs) =====
Home
Camps
Discover Kanawana
Summer Camp Jobs
Summer Camp Jobs
Are you compassionate and enthusiastic? Do you love working with youth and being outdoors? If so, then Camp YMCA Kanawana may be perfect for you!
Join our team!
Camp YMCA Kanawana offers seasonal, part-time, and full-time job opportunities. While most of our positions take place during the summer as part of our overnight camp, our outdoor centre also operates in the spring and fall. Camp YMCA Kanawana hires:
Camp counselors;
Program leaders;
Lifeguards;
Program specialists;
Section heads;
Expedition guides;
Kitchen staff;
Health care workers;
Drivers;
Administrative staff;
…and more.
Camp YMCA Kanawana provides a caring and fun environment grounded in teamwork and community spirit. If you’re looking for a life-changing experience and a chance to make a positive impact on youth from around the world, Camp YMCA Kanawanais the place for you!
View job offers
Job Requirements
Before applying to work with us, please note that all employees must meet the following requirements:
Be at least 17 years old;
Have no criminal record related to the position;
Hold valid First Aid and CPR certification (courses may be offered in the spring for those who are not yet certified);
Speak English and have a basic understanding of French for positions at the summer camp, and be fluent in both English and French for roles at the outdoor centre (exceptions may be made for international staff);
Have experience working with youth or have completed the Leadership /
Counselor-in-Training program.

===== International Experience  (https://www.ymcaquebec.org/en/summer-camp-kanawana/international-campers) =====
Home
Camps
Discover Kanawana
International Experience
Home
Camps
Discover Kanawana
International Experience
International Experience
The United States, the United Kingdom, Spain, Mexico, Australia, even Zimbabwe… Every year, Camp YMCA Kanawana welcomes campers from all over the world!
Located in the heart of nature, just a one-hour drive from Montréal, Camp YMCA Kanawana offers a safe and caring setting where campers can enjoy breathtaking scenery and facilities.
Whether to stay at camp or embark on a canoe-tripping expedition, campers aged 7 to 17 can participate in a wide range of outdoor programs and activities and connect with Canada’s spectacular nature.
Consult our programs
Getting ready for your child’s trip
Here is some important information to get your child ready for their trip:
Visa
Depending on your country of origin, a visa may be required to enter Canada. Please make sure to check entry requirements and start the process well in advance.
Health insurance
Each child must have medical insurance for the duration of their stay. Camp YMCA Kanawana does not provide medical insurance.
Flight
Parents are responsible for booking round-trip airfare for their child. The flights must be scheduled
between June 22 and August 14
. Outside of those dates, we cannot ensure transportation to/from the airport or on-site supervision.
Personal items
We are aware that many children visiting from outside of the province often travel with valuables. To safeguard these items, all valuables will be stored in the camp’s safe, which is only accessible to the camp directors. They will be stored in the safe on the first day and returned to your child at their departure from camp.
Language spoken at camp
English is the main language spoken at camp. Most staff members also speak French; some speak other languages but we cannot make any guarantees.
Questions or concerns regarding your child’s registration?
Consult our Preparation Guide
Contact us
Transportation service
We do everything we can to accommodate children arriving from outside of Canada. We offer a transportation service between camp and Montréal’s Pierre-Elliot-Trudeau airport, for an additional fee. If your child needs this service, please advise us by contacting the camp director by email at
camp.kanawana@ymcaquebec.org
.
Airport Pick-Up – One way
1 day
Price: $ 96 + taxes
Eligible for tax credits expenses.
Airport Drop off – One way
1 day
Price: $ 96 + taxes
Eligible for tax credits expenses.
Airport Transportation – Round Trip
2 days
Price: $ 192 + taxes
Eligible for tax credits expenses.
You may also be interested in
Camp YMCA Kanawana’s History
Learn more about Kanawana
Our team at Kanawana
Our team

===== Applying for a Leadership Program  (https://www.ymcaquebec.org/en/summer-camp-kanawana/leadership-program-application) =====
Home
Camps
Discover Kanawana
Applying for a Leadership Program
Applying for a Leadership Program
How to apply for a Leadership Program
Basic eligibility requirements
Trailblazer
(June 22 - August 14): must be
16 or 17 years old
by
July 20, 2026
, and be available for the entire summer.
Forester
(June 22 - August 14): must be
16 or 17 years old
by
July 20, 2026
, and be available for the entire summer.
Rangers
(June 22 - July 17): must be
15 or 16 years old
by
September 30, 2026
, and be available for the entire month of your chosen program.
Voyageurs Ultimate
(July 20 - August 14): must be between
15 and 17 years old
by
September 30, 2026
, and be available for the entire month of your chosen program.
Exceptions may be made to miss a couple of days of your program for educational conflicts – please mention your date restrictions in the interview process.
To apply for a leadership program:
When registration opens, fill out your registration form on our online registration system.
Please note that for the LIT programs, cabin mate requests are
not
necessarily taken into consideration when forming sleeping arrangements. We believe that part of being an LIT is learning to live in a community with ALL others, and thus we create and change our sleeping arrangements when it suits the needs of the group’s development.
Candidates: Tell us, in the most creative way you can think of, why you want to take part in a Camp YMCA Kanawana Leadership Program
. Let us know what you are most looking forward to learning, how you think the program will help you in the future, and what you have to offer as a leader at Camp YMCA Kanawana. Submissions we’ve received in the past include such things as songs, videos, drawings, creative writing, or other unique creations.
Applications for our LIT programs are still being accepted, but availability may be limited based on the first-choice program. For more information, please contact us!
ALL submissions for part 2 of the application must include the following
Name
Age by September 30, 2026 or by July 20, 2026 depending on the program (birth date is helpful)
Leadership Program of choice (Forester, Trailblazer or Ranger)
Submissions can be made in English OR French, and should be sent:
By email to
leadership.kanawana@ymcaquebec.org
with a subject heading “LIT Application”
Or by mail/in person to: Camp YMCA Kanawana, 1440 Rue Stanley, RC, Montreal, QC, H3A 1P7
What next?
Once we receive your camper’s creative application AND your online registration, candidates will be contacted to have a group or individual interview in person. We will send you information on how to book a date and time with one of our interviewers. Please be prepared to have a video interview, or let us know if that’s not possible for you.
We will do our best to send out decision notices as soon as possible after all interviews have been completed. Participants will be notified by email.
Please also note that
financial assistance AND specific campership subsidies
are available for our leadership programs. If cost is an issue for you, please get in touch with us to discuss options for your LIT-hopeful camper, and encourage them to apply!
Feel free to contact us for more information about our leadership programs –
camp.kanawana@ymcaquebec.org
.
You may also be interested in
Camp YMCA Kanawana’s History
Learn more about Kanawana
Our team at Kanawana
Our team

===== Terms and Conditions  (https://www.ymcaquebec.org/en/summer-camp-kanawana/terms-conditions) =====
Home
Camps
Discover Kanawana
Terms and Conditions
Terms and Conditions - Summer camp YMCA Kanawana
Payment
Payments can be made either by credit card or Electronic Cheque (EFT) by providing your banking information upon checkout. Our online system will not accept payments by cheque, debit or cash; to pay by cheque, debit or cash you must fill out a paper registration form. Please also note that these methods of payment may cause a delay in the registration process, and your spot will not be guaranteed until we receive a payment. We strongly recommend using our online system and paying by credit card in order to ensure that your child’s spot is reserved.
Registration fee
A
non-refundable registration fee of $175
per session is required upon registration.
Payment schedule
Payments are due every 20th day of the month between January 20 and May 20, 2026.
Payment due date
All fees must be paid in full
by June 1, 2026.
Declined payment
A
$15 fee
will be charged for any declined payment.
Registration before January 20, 2026
If registration takes place before January 20, 2026: the registration fee will have been paid and the first payment will be due on January 20, 2026. The balance of payments will be due on March 20, April 20 and May 20, 2026.
Registration after January 20, 2026
If you register after January 20, 2026: registration fees and monthly instalments from January 20, 2026, to date
will need to be paid upon registration
. Subsequent payments will be charged on the 20
th
day of each month until May 20, 2026.
Discounts
*Other conditions apply.
Referral program
Refer a new camper to camp and you both get
$50
off your camp sessions. This discount is valid for all age groups. Referral discounts will be applied after general registration opens. Please note that this offer is not valid for session 4.*
Families
Do you have a big family? You will receive a
10% discount per camper*
starting from the second child registered. Contact us by phone at
1-833-505-9622
(outside Montreal) or
514-687-9622
before
January 20, 2026
to benefit from this offer.
Financial assistance
Eligible families can apply for
financial assistance
before January 20, 2026.*
Refund and cancellation terms
Camp fees will be refunded if a written request is received prior to the first day of camp. No refunds will be issued without a written request. The registration fee of $175 per week due upon registration is
non-refundable
.
Day camp management reserves the right to cancel (and refund) any registration at any time. All refunds will be made using the same payment method as the original payment. If payment was made by debit card or in cash, the refund will be made by cheque.
Once the camp week begins, refunds are prorated for the days your child was present during that same week.
Absence from summer camp does not constitute withdrawal from the program and does not entitle the participant to a refund.
No refund will be given if a child is sent home for poor behaviour.
Changes will be made according to availability upon receipt of a written request. A
$25 administrative fee
will be charged to make the modification.
Please email your request to
contact@ymcaquebec.org
.
Terms and Conditions - Camp YMCA Kanawana
Terms and conditions
By registering your child at Camp YMCA Kanawana, you, as the participant's parent or legal guardian, agree to the following terms and conditions:
If my child requires a dentist, doctor, or medication while at camp, charges for such services and transportation are the responsibility of the parent or legal guardian.
I will immediately notify the camp if my child has been exposed to any contagious diseases, lice, or bed bugs prior to the start of camp.
I will immediately notify the camp of any changes in my child’s health since their registration.
I allow Camp YMCA Kanawana staff to administer medication to my child as prescribed by their doctor or pharmacist or in the case of anaphylaxis.
I will allow Camp YMCA Kanawana’s staff to dispense over-the-counter medication to my child for common ailments such as headaches, earaches, fever, etc. I will not hold Camp YMCA Kanawana or the administrator of this/these treatments in any way responsible for any reactions that my child may have to any of the following medication: Acetaminophen – Ibuprofen – Antinausea drugs – Antihistamine – Anti-inflammatory – Cough syrup – Topical antibiotic – Homeopathic products.
Camp YMCA Kanawana staff can check my child for lice. Should my child have lice or nits, they will either return home to receive lice or nit treatment, or they will be treated at camp, the cost of which will be paid by the parents or legal guardians.
Camp YMCA Kanawana reserves the right to remove a camper from a program if their behaviour puts them or others at risk of physical or emotional harm. Should a child be sent home for any reason, it is the parent or legal guardian’s responsibility to pick them up within a reasonable amount of time.
My child/children and I acknowledge that we are responsible for learning and following the safety measures and other regulations established by YMCA staff at all times. My child/children and I understand that any behaviour that places my child/children, or others, at risk may result in an immediate dismissal from the program. I agree to assume any expense(s) arising from such a dismissal.
The YMCA, its employees and partners are not responsible for the loss, theft or damage of my child’s property during my child’s participation at camp.
In case of emergency, after first attempting to reach the guardians/emergency contacts
In the event of an accident, injury or illness involving my child, while it is impossible for the YMCA to make immediate contact with a parent/guardian, I authorize and grant permission to YMCA staff to secure proper medical treatment and authorize them to act on my behalf in all procedures, including admission to an emergency unit, hospital and related treatments, such as X-rays, other tests and treatment, injections, anesthesia and/or surgery, as deemed necessary by the attending medical professional(s). I consent to not holding the YMCAs of Québec responsible for any costs or injury arising out of an emergency situation.
In case of a serious emergency during a back-country trip where an evacuation by plane or helicopter is required to ensure my child’s safety and health, I understand that a third-party organization, AirMedic, will be responsible for evacuating my child.
I have read the information provided by Camp YMCA Kanawana and understand the implications of participating in a Camp YMCA Kanawana program.
Informations on inherent risks
INFORMATION ON INHERENT RISKS
I acknowledge that I have been informed of the risks inherent in the activities that are part of the Camp YMCA Kanawana program.
The inherent risks to Camp YMCA Kanawana outdoor activities in which I will participate are, in particular, but not limited to:
Injuries due to falls or other movements, (sprain, strain, fracture, head injury, etc.);
Injuries with blunt or sharp objects (branches, equipment, etc.);
Exposure to the weather (cold, hypothermia, etc.);
Injuries resulting from contact (accidental or otherwise) between individuals;
Allergies (food, insects, sunscreen, bug repellent);
Contact with water or drowning (during water activities);
Burns and / or other heat induced injuries (hyperthermia, heat stroke, etc.).
CONSENT
I hereby certify that the information contained in this registration package is, to the best of my knowledge, exact and accurate. I further certify that no information, pertinent or not, to the health profile of the participant was deliberately omitted. I am aware that the information contained in this registration package is confidential and will be used to better plan and supervise the safety of the activities in which the camper will participate and will allow Camp YMCA Kanawana to establish a profile of its participants. I am also aware that the activities offered by Camp YMCA Kanawana may take place in wild or natural environments that, consequently, may be quite distant from medical services. During an emergency requiring an evacuation, THIS COULD result in long delays and, as such, a POSSIBLE AGGRAVATION of the state of the camper’s health or injury. Having taken cognizance of these risks and having had the opportunity to discuss them with a person responsible for the activity, I acknowledge that I was informed about the inherent risks to the activities and that I confirm that the participant is able to participate in the activity or the stay WILLINGLY AND I ACCEPT ANY AND ALL RISKS THAT such an activity or stay can present. I also confirm that the participant will play an active role in risk management by adopting preventive behaviours with regards to the safety of the participant, and the safety of the other persons. Camp YMCA Kanawana guides reserve the right to exclude any person deemed to be a risk to himself / herself or to the rest of the group. I understand that the participant may be asked to leave the present activity for any reason whatsoever.
Tax Credit
Some fees are eligible for tax credits for child care expense and children’s physical activities. Certain conditions apply.