Home
Camps
Discover Kanawana
Kanawana Alumni
Kanawana Alumni
At Kanawana, our community extends beyond current campers. We love to hear from and stay connected with our broader camp family throughout the years. Stay informed about everything happening at camp by subscribing to our newsletter.
Our newsletter subscription form will be available shortly!
Get involved
Volunteer with us to help the magic of camp shine one! You can volunteer with us for one-time events or join one of our committees.
Volunteer Recognition Guidelines
To promote volunteering in the Kanawana community, our Volunteer Recognition Guidelines are back. We want the work done by our volunteers to be useful, have a positive impact, and be recognized through the sharing of experiences.
Guidelines for the volunteer recognition program
All volunteering must address one of YMCA Kanawana’s operational needs, and the volunteer must comply with the YMCA Kanawana operational rules at the camp site, including criminal background check and compliance with the child welfare screening process.
The volunteer’s service must be at least one week at the camp (seven days on site), must meet a real need for YMCA Kanawana, and replace a service normally performed by an employee.
In exchange for service, and if the need is approved by Camp YMCA Kanawana (YMCA Kanawana reserves the right to refuse a volunteer’s service based on the camp’s needs), the volunteer will receive compensation totalling $700 per week of service (seven days) given at the summer camp. This amount is applied as a discount or reimbursement on the stay of a camper from the volunteer’s immediate or extended family (direct child, adopted child, nephew, niece, grandchild) at Camp YMCA Kanawana (current season or following year). The volunteer may also agree to donate said amount to help fund the stay of a camper from a less privileged background at the camp. This credit expires on September 30 of the year following the volunteer’s service (e.g., I volunteer from August 1 to 7, 2024, I have until September 30, 2025 to apply my volunteering credit).
Join one of our committees
Local Advisory Committee
Have a say on how Kanawana is managed by participating in quarterly meetings (possibility of additional meetings if needed)  to discuss Kanawana's needs and future directions.
Non Nobis Solum Committee
The perfect committee to get your hands dirty! The Non Nobis Solum Committee is an on-call volunteer group that helps out during coordinated volunteering events, such as spring clean-up or at other times in the year.
Ad-hoc volunteering
If you would like to help out from time to time without a regular commitment, you can still get involved by writing to us.
Previous element
Next element