NEWS RELEASE
For immediate distribution


Jared MacSween Receives Camp YMCA Kanawana “Pip” Award

Saint-Sauveur (Québec), August 31, 2026 – Jared MacSween, Community worker and leader, is the recipient of the 2026 Camp YMCA Kanawana “Pip” Award. He is the 17th person to receive the award, established in 2007 to recognize the contributions of distinguished Kanawana alumni.

Jared MacSween is the General Manager of YMCA Cedar Glen Outdoor Centre. Jared has a B.A. in Applied Human Science and a Diploma in Social Studies from Concordia University.  He lives in Toronto with his family and volunteers as a coach in house-league Hockey.  For 12 years from 2012 to 2024, Jared was the Manager, Training for the YMCA Ontario Regional Development Centre (RDC).  He was previously involved in over 20 years in youth work: a transitional housing program for young adults in Toronto, managing a youth drop-in centre with the city of Montreal and the YMCA, and in child, youth and camping programs with the YMCAs of Quebec. At Kanawana he was a camper from 1982-1986, and staff from 1987-1991.

“The ‘Pip’ Committee recognizes Jared MacSween’s lifelong dedication to work in the community,” says Andrew Caddell, who sponsors the award. “The purpose of this award is to recognize people who have taken the values they learned at Kanawana and applied them to the larger world.” On July 31, Jared MacSween received the “Pip” award at Camp YMCA Kanawana, and will do so again on September 12 at the annual Kanawana alumni weekend.

About the “Pip” Award
The “Pip” Award is given annually to a former camper or staff at Camp YMCA Kanawana who best exemplifies the values of selflessness and contribution to the community. The award is a memorial to Philip “Pip” Caddell (1913‐2004), Second World War officer, Montreal executive and community volunteer, and his grandson, James Caddell (1973‐2005), UN Peacekeeper and public servant. Both attended Camp YMCA Kanawana – “Pip” as a camper in 1928 and James as a camper and counsellor from 1983 to 1991. The “Pip” Award Committee is composed of camp alumni.

Previous recipients have included Richard “Itche” Kerr, a volunteer working with the physically challenged; the late Richard Patten, former Ontario cabinet minister; the late Stuart McLean, broadcaster and author; John Cleghorn, former CEO of the Royal Bank; the late Sam Lazarus, NGO volunteer and the Lazarus family; Jeniene Philips Birks, community volunteer;  Terry “Aislin” Mosher, editorial cartoonist;  the late Carol Skinner, an advocate for people with ALS; Dr. Marina Sharpe, a world expert on refugees, Dr. Amy Ornstein, an advocate for abused children, Dr. Karl Cernovich, a leader in emergency medicine, Dr. James Orbinski, humanitarian and former head of Médecins sans Frontières, and Alexandra Olshefsky, public defender and community volunteer.

Information:Marie-Pierre Lacasse / 514 849-5331/ marie-pierre.lacasse@ymcaquebec.org
Andrew Caddell / 514 869-6434; pipson52@hotmail.com

About Camp YMCA Kanawana
Camp YMCA Kanawana has been contributing to the well‐being and success of youth ages 7 to 20 for over 130 years. Children take part in a safe and unique outdoor experience while learning about the environment and sustainable development. Established in 1894, Camp YMCA Kanawana was the first summer residential camp in Québec. It is accredited by the Association des camps du Québec and is a founding member of the Association. For more information, see www.ymcakanawana.com or our Facebook or Twitter pages.

About the YMCAs of Québec
The YMCAs of Québec is a charitable organization that builds stronger communities by providing opportunities for everyone to lead fulfilling, active, healthy and engaged lives. Its YMCA centres, International Language School, Residence, Camp YMCA Kanawana and its service sites across the province are visited each year by more than 115,000 people. The first YMCA in North America was founded in Montréal in November 1851.The YMCAs of Québec is part of the Canadian network of 47 YMCA associations. For more information, visit ymcaquebec.org or our Facebook and Twitter pages.
